
 Originally measured as 14 @,@ 433 feet ( 4 @,@ 399 m ) in height , Mount Elbert 's elevation was later adjusted to 14 @,@ 440 feet ( 4 @,@ 400 m ) following a re @-@ evaluation of mapped elevations , which sparked protests . The actual change was made in 1988 as a result of the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 ; it seems the original measurement resulted from the Sea Level Datum of 1929 . A matter of some contention arose after the Great Depression over the heights of Elbert and its neighbor , Mount Massive , which differ in elevation by only 12 feet ( 3 @.@ 7 m ) . This led to an ongoing dispute that came to a head with the Mount Massive supporters building large piles of stones on the summit to boost its height , only to have the Mount Elbert proponents demolish them . The effort was ultimately unsuccessful and Mount Elbert has remained the highest peak in Colorado . The first motorized ascent of Elbert occurred in 1949 , when a Jeep was driven to the summit , apparently to judge suitability for skiing development . 


 = = Flora and fauna = = 


 The summit of Mount Elbert is an alpine environment , featuring plants such as Phacelia sericea ( sky @-@ pilot ) , Hymenoxys grandiflora ( old @-@ man @-@ of @-@ the @-@ mountain ) , and Geum rossii ( alpine avens ) . Also noted are Carex atrata var. pullata , Salix desertorum , Platanthera hyperborea , Thalictrum fendleri , Aquilegia canadensis , Chenopodium album , Gentiana detonsa var. hallii , and Bigelovia parryi . Below treeline the mountain is heavily forested , with the lower slopes covered with a mixture of lodgepole pine , spruce , aspen and fir . 

 Some of the fauna reported on the climb to the summit include black bears , marmots , mule deer , pikas , and pocket gophers ; there are also many species of avifauna . Elk , grouse , turkey and bighorn sheep are present in the area during the summer . 


 = = Climbing = = 


 There are three main routes which ascend the mountain , all of which gain over 4 @,@ 100 feet ( 1 @,@ 200 m ) of elevation . The standard route ascends the peak from the east , starting from the Colorado Trail just north of Twin Lakes . The 4 @.@ 6 miles ( 7 @.@ 4 km ) long North ( Main ) Elbert Trail begins close to the Elbert Creek Campground , and gains about 4 @,@ 500 feet ( 1 @,@ 400 m ) . The trail is open to equestrians , mountain bikers and hunters during season . An easier , but longer route , the South Elbert Trail , is 5 @.@ 5 miles ( 8 @.@ 9 km ) long , climbing 4 @,@ 600 feet ( 1 @,@ 400 m ) at a less @-@ punishing gradient than the North Elbert Trail , approaching from the south and then climbing the eastern ridge . 

 The most difficult of the main routes is the Black Cloud Trail , a Class 2 climb that takes ten to fourteen hours depending on pace , gains 5 @,@ 300 feet ( 1 @,@ 600 m ) in elevation , and also involves an ascent of the sub @-@ peak , South Elbert , at 14 @,@ 134 feet ( 4 @,@ 308 m ) . Even healthy and experienced climbers report great difficulty on this route , and despite the fact that there is a trail , the route is extremely steep , unstable , and rocky in places . The elevation gain is not evenly distributed over the 5 @.@ 5 @-@ mile ascent . There are also routes approaching from the western face , and southwestern ridge , from South Halfmoon Creek Trailhead and Echo Canyon Trailhead respectively . 

 Although strenuous and requiring physical fitness , none of the conventional routes require specialist mountaineering skills or technical rock climbing . The main dangers of the mountain are those common to all high mountains , particularly altitude sickness . This can affect anyone , even those who are acclimatized . In serious cases , it can lead to high @-@ altitude pulmonary edema and cerebral edema , which can lead to difficulties with breathing , paralysis , and death . Climbers are advised to begin their ascent at or before 6 a.m. and to summit and descend before early afternoon to minimize exposure to possible afternoon thunderstorms while at high altitudes . Although the most conventional form of ascent is by hiking , Anna Elizabeth Dickinson , the orator , ascended the mountain on a mule borrowed from the U.S. government . 



 = Scientology in Germany = 


 The Church of Scientology has been present in Germany since 1970 . German authorities estimate that there are 4 @,@ 000 active Scientologists in Germany today ; the Church of Scientology gives a membership figure of around 12 @,@ 000 . The Church of Scientology has encountered particular antagonism from the German press and government and occupies a precarious legal , social and cultural position in Germany . 

 German courts have so far not resolved whether Scientology should be accorded the legal status of a religious or worldview community , and different courts have reached contradictory conclusions . The German domestic intelligence service has monitored the organization 's activities . The German government does not recognize Scientology as a religion . It views it as an abusive business masquerading as a religion and believes that it pursues political goals that conflict with the values enshrined in the German constitution . This stance has been criticized , most notably by the U.S. government , which recognizes Scientology as a religion and has raised concerns about the violation of individual rights posed by sect filters . 

 Scientologists in Germany face specific political and economic restrictions . They are barred from membership in some major political parties , and businesses and other employers use so @-@ called " sect filters " to expose a prospective business partner 's or employee 's association with the organization . German federal and state interior ministers started a process aimed at banning Scientology in late 2007 , but abandoned the initiative a year later , finding insufficient legal grounds . Despite this , polls suggest that most Germans favor banning Scientology altogether . 


 = = Background = = 


 Scientology , founded in the early 1950s in the United States by L. Ron Hubbard and today claiming to be represented in 150 countries , has been a very controversial new religious movement . Its stated utopian aim is to " clear the planet " , to bring about an enlightened age in which every individual has overcome their psychological limitations . Scientology teaches that the source of people 's unhappiness lies in " engrams " , psychological burdens acquired in the course of painful experiences , which can be cleared through a type of counselling called " auditing " made available by the Church of Scientology . 

 The fact that Scientologists have to pay large fees for auditing and other Scientology services has brought controversy to Scientology throughout much of its history , with governments classing it as a profit @-@ making enterprise rather than as a religion . Critics maintain that Scientology is " a business @-@ driven , psychologically manipulative , totalitarian ideology with world @-@ dominating aspirations " , and that it tricks its members into parting with significant sums of money for Scientology courses . Scientology has fought innumerable lawsuits to defend itself against such charges and to pursue legal recognition as a religion . These efforts have been partly successful – Scientology has gained recognition as a tax @-@ exempt religious group in a number of countries , most notably in Australia in 1983 and the United States in 1993 , and in 2007 won an important case at the European Court of Human Rights , which censured Russia for failing to register Scientology as a religion . 

 The German government has said that it does not consider Scientology a religion , but a " commercial enterprise with a history of taking advantage of vulnerable individuals and an extreme dislike of any criticism " whose " totalitarian structure and methods may pose a risk to Germany 's democratic society " . Accordingly , the German government has taken a very strong stance against the organization . Germany is not alone in opposing Scientology ; in France , the Church of Scientology was convicted of organized fraud in October 2009 , after a court found that members had been manipulated into paying large sums for Scientology products , and the Church only narrowly escaped being banned altogether . Scientology is similarly controversial in Belgium , Greece and the UK . 

 On the subject of Scientology 's status as a religion , the German government has pointed to a 1995 decision by the Federal Labor Court of Germany . That court , noting Hubbard 's instruction that Scientologists should " make money , make more money – make other people produce so as to make more money " , came to the conclusion that " Scientology purports to be a ' church ' merely as a cover to pursue its economic interests " . In the same decision , the court also found that Scientology uses " inhuman and totalitarian practices " . Given the lessons of Germany 's 20th @-@ century history , in which the country came to be dominated by a fascist movement that started from similarly small beginnings , Germany is very wary of any ideological movement that might appear to be seeking a position of absolute power . References in Scientology writings to the elimination of " parasites " and " antisocial " people who stand in the way of progress towards Scientology 's utopian world " without insanity , without criminals and without war " evoke uncomfortable parallels with Nazism , and have led to Scientology being classified as an " extremist political movement " . 

 To further justify its stance , the German government has also pointed to the long history of U.S. court cases involving Scientology , including the conviction of 11 top Scientologists in 1979 and 1980 for a conspiracy involving the infiltration of U.S. government agencies , wiretapping and the theft of government documents , a 1994 U.S. Supreme Court finding that Scientology practices took place in a " coercive environment " , and Scientology 's track record of pursuing its critics through malicious court cases and private investigators . In examining the potential threat posed by Scientology the German government has noted that Scientology organizations are " structured so as to make the individual psychologically and financially dependent on a Scientology system " , and that members often abandon contact with friends and family . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Scientology presence in Germany = = = 


 Scientology first became active in Germany in 1970 . By 2007 , there were ten major centres ( " Scientology Churches " ) , as well as fourteen minor centres ( " Scientology Missions " ) in Germany . The German Scientology Churches are located in the big cities – Munich , Hamburg , Berlin , Düsseldorf , Frankfurt am Main , Hanover and Stuttgart . Of the Scientology Missions , nine are in Baden @-@ Württemberg , and three in Bavaria . Following German re @-@ unification , Scientology proved unable to gain significant numbers of followers in the territories of the former German Democratic Republic ; most adherents are found in Baden @-@ Württemberg , Bavaria and North @-@ Rhine Westphalia . 

 Scientology is represented by a large number of independent associations or Vereine in Germany ; their umbrella organisation is the Scientology Kirche Deutschland e.V. Germany 's domestic intelligence service , the Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz ( BfV , or Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution ) , estimates that there are 4 @,@ 000 Scientologists in Germany , down from earlier estimates of 5 @,@ 000 to 6 @,@ 000 . The Church of Scientology reported around 30 @,@ 000 members from the mid @-@ 1990s onwards ; this number remained stable for many years . However more recently Scientology has said it has only 12 @,@ 000 members . Discrepancies in Scientology membership numbers arise because the Church of Scientology applies more inclusive criteria in establishing its figures , essentially including anyone who has purchased a book or participated in courses , regardless of their subsequent involvement . The number of contractually bound Scientology staff members working in German Scientology organizations is unlikely to exceed a few hundred . 

 Scientology formulated a " Clear Germany " strategy in 1994 – similar to equivalent strategies pursued by Scientology in other countries and regions of the world – with the long @-@ term aim of transforming German society in line with the Scientological ideal : a non @-@ pluralist society in which Scientology enjoys overriding influence . The programme sought to address Scientology 's image problems in Germany , to identify weak points in Germany that could be exploited for political gain , such as Germany 's National Socialist history , and to increase both membership figures and political influence in German society , with a special emphasis on manoeuvring Scientologists into key positions in industry and government . As most religions seek to widen their influence in society , such a programme could of course also be defended as a missionary effort , much like those many religions engage in . However , according to the BfV , the strategy has not had any significant success . By 1998 , 90 government officials had been suspected of being Scientologists and in 48 cases the suspicions were confirmed , but apart from some isolated cases , most of the officials concerned had not used their positions to advertise Scientology . According to Fifka & Sydora ( 2009 ) , it is unknown to what degree the " Clear Germany " programme is still being pursued . 


 = = = Public opposition = = = 


 German public discourse does not regard Scientology as a religion , but generally characterizes it as a Sekte ( cult or sect ) , or as an exploitative profit @-@ making venture preying on vulnerable minds . Public concerns about the potential dangers posed by cults date back to the early 1970s , when widespread debate took place about " youth religions " such as the Unification Church , ISKCON , Children of God , and the Divine Light Mission . The most prominent critics of these new religious movements were the " sect commissioners " ( Sektenbeauftragte ) of Germany 's Protestant Churches , who also actively promoted the establishment of private " initiatives of parents and concerned persons " . Aktion Bildungsinformation ( " Educational Information Campaign " ) became an important organization dedicated to opposing Scientology ; taking an activist stance , it warned people not to get involved with Scientology , filed successful lawsuits against the Church of Scientology over its proselytizing in public places , and published an influential book , The Sect of Scientology and its Front Organizations . In 1981 , the organization 's founder , Ingo Heinemann , became the director of Aktion für geistige und psychische Freiheit ( " Campaign for Intellectual and Psychic Freedom " ) , Germany 's most prominent anti @-@ cult organization . Warnings from sect experts about the influence of new religious movements gained media attention which put political pressure on the government to deal with the situation ; as the movements were not doing anything illegal , the government resorted to issuing a range of leaflets and public statements giving general warnings about religious sects , the earliest of these publications appearing in 1979 . 

 Fueled by events such as the Waco Siege in 1993 , the murders and suicides associated with the Order of the Solar Temple , and the 1995 Aum Shinrikyo incidents in Japan , German fears and concerns about new religious movements gained in intensity in the 1990s , with Scientology attracting particular attention . Perceptions that Scientology had a totalitarian character were reinforced when Robert Vaughn Young , an American ex @-@ Scientologist and former PR official in the Church of Scientology , visited German officials in late 1995 and wrote an article in Der Spiegel , a widely @-@ read weekly magazine , describing Scientology as a totalitarian system operating a gulag – the Rehabilitation Project Force – for members of Scientology 's Sea Org found guilty of transgressions . From the mid @-@ 1990s onward , press articles , reports and essays on Scientology appeared on an almost daily basis , accompanied by books and television programmes that reached a mass audience . 

 As noted by the religious scholar Hubert Seiwert , Scientology came to be seen as a " serious political danger that not only threatened to turn individuals into will @-@ less zombies , but was also conspiring to overthrow the democratic constitution of the state " . This view of Scientology as a public enemy , Seiwert adds , " became a matter of political correctness " : senior political figures became involved in launching campaigns against Scientology , and being suspected of any association with it resulted in social ostracism . Stephen A. Kent , writing in 1998 , noted that officials at all levels of German government shared the insistence that Scientology should be suppressed . Scientology was viewed as " a totalitarian , business @-@ driven organization [ ... ] guilty of significant human rights abuses . " Officials examining primary and secondary sources , legal documents , and the testimony of former members , concluded that the organization was " antithetical to a democratic state " . Federal ministries and state governments were asked to use all legal means at their disposal to check the activities of Scientology . 

 Government publications on the dangers of sects increased between 1996 and 1998 , and a significant number of them dealt with the Church of Scientology . The German courts had approved such publications in 1989 , seeing them as part of the government 's responsibility to keep the public informed , and finding that they did not interfere with religious freedom . In 1996 , the German parliament launched an Enquete ( Enquiry ) Commission to investigate sects and similar groups , in large part because of public concerns about Scientology . Its final report , published in June 1998 , concluded that Scientology , alone among new religious movements , required monitoring by Germany 's domestic intelligence services . 

 An area of widespread concern in the German media has been the alleged " infiltration " of businesses by Scientologists , in line with Scientology 's declared aim to penetrate society , politics and business in preparation for world domination . Attempts to infiltrate businesses have reportedly been most successful among small and medium @-@ size companies , such as estate agents , management consultants and management @-@ training companies . Management @-@ consultancy firms led by Scientologists often conceal their association with Scientology ; once they have recruited members of their clients ' upper management , these managers may send employees to Scientology trainers , as part of company education and training programmes , without informing them as to the origin of the training methods used . An expensive commercial version of Scientology 's Oxford Capacity Analysis , usually offered free as part of Scientology proselytizing in public places , temporarily entered some major German companies ( who were unaware of its provenance ) via such a management @-@ consultancy firm . 

 In the mid @-@ 2000s , German sect experts expressed concerns that Scientologists were becoming active in the German after @-@ school tutoring market . These concerns arose because customers of around 20 after @-@ school tutoring centres operated by Scientologists in Frankfurt , Hamburg , Stuttgart and elsewhere might be unaware that their children were being taught by Scientologists , using Scientology methods . Brochures advertising the tutoring services would at most mention the name of L. Ron Hubbard , the founder of Scientology , but not Scientology itself . 

 In early 2008 , Thomas Gandow , Sect Commissioner of the German Lutheran Church in Berlin and Brandenburg , and the historian Guido Knopp both likened the Scientologist Hollywood actor Tom Cruise to Goebbels , the Nazi propaganda minister . Gandow and Knopp cited a leaked Scientology video in which Cruise was seen asking the audience whether Scientologists should " clean up " the world , the audience responding with enthusiastic cheers – cheers which Gandow and Knopp felt were reminiscent of the audience 's response to Goebbels ' famous question , " Do you want total war ? " Gandow 's and Knopp 's comments found few critics in Germany . Most Germans consider Scientology a subversive organization . In 1997 , Time reported that 70 % of Germans favoured banning Scientology ; a poll conducted in September 2008 by Der Spiegel found 67 % support for a ban . 

 German scholars such as Brigitte Schön and Gerald Willms have commented that rhetoric dominates public discourse around Scientology in Germany : in their view , efforts to " frame " information in such a way as to shape opinion have long been more important than the underlying realities . In Schön 's words , this includes both the " efforts of German politicians to enhance their popularity with strong @-@ worded statements " and " Scientology 's efforts to present itself as the victim of unjust persecution " ; commenting on foreign reporting on Scientology in Germany , she adds that " the American press may prefer sensationalist news to boring investigation and may frame the issue according to American stereotypes " . Both Willms and Schön assert that the situation is compounded by the general paucity of scientific studies of Scientology . Schön as well as Irving Hexham , Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Calgary in Canada , have remarked in particular on the lack of academic studies by German scholars . Hexham attributes this situation to the strong influence of the Christian churches in Germany , which has made German academics wary of approaching the subject , because they fear repercussions for their research funding and for their prospects of future employment if they involve themselves in the debate . 

 In 2010 a German public broadcaster , ARD , showed the film Until Nothing Remains , a dramatized account of the effect Scientology had on one German family . Said to be based on a true story , the film attracted widespread media attention and a viewership of 8 @.@ 69 million . 


 = = Legal status = = 


 While there have been calls for Scientology to be banned , the Church of Scientology remains legal in Germany and is allowed to operate there . Its precise legal status however is unresolved . Two points are contested : first , whether or not the teachings of Scientology qualify as a " religion or worldview " ( Religion or Weltanschauung ; these are equal before German law ) , and secondly , whether or not these teachings are only used as a pretext for purely commercial activity ; if the latter were the case , this would most likely imply that Scientology would not qualify for protection as a " religious or worldview community " ( Religions- oder Weltanschauungsgemeinschaft ) under Article 4 of the German constitution , which guarantees the freedom of belief , religion and worldview . Status as a " religious or worldview community " also affects a broad range of other issues in Germany , such as taxation and freedom of association . 

 The Federal Court of Justice of Germany has not yet made an explicit decision on the matter , but implicitly assumed in 1980 that Scientology represented a religious or worldview community . The Upper Administrative Court in Hamburg explicitly asserted in 1994 that Scientology should be viewed as a worldview community . In 1995 , the Federal Labor Court of Germany decided that the Church of Scientology merely pursued commercial aims and did not represent a religious or worldview community entitled to protection under Article 4 of the German Constitution , although another decision by the same court left the question open again in 2003 . In another 2003 decision , the Administrative Court of Baden @-@ Württemberg in Mannheim said there were no indications that the teachings of Scientology merely served as a pretext for commercial activity . In 2005 , the Federal Administrative Court of Germany explicitly granted a Scientologist protection under Article 4 @.@ 1 of the German Constitution , which declares the freedom of religion and worldview inviolate . 

 Many courts have declined to assess the religious status of Scientology , finding that the question was irrelevant to deciding the case at hand . The Federal Administrative Court for example ruled in 1997 that the question whether or not Scientology was a religion was irrelevant , and that its legal status should be judged by its business activities . The German government does not consider the Church of Scientology to be a religious or worldview community and asserts that Scientology is a profit @-@ making enterprise , rather than a religion . Recent years have seen a number of court decisions in Scientology 's favour , despite the very widespread negative attitude to Scientology among politicians and the general public . 


 = = Government surveillance = = 


 Given the history of Nazism 's rise to power in Germany in the 1930s , the present German state has committed itself to taking active steps to prevent the rise of any ideology that threatens the values enshrined in the German constitution . The BfV domestic intelligence service ( Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz , or Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution ) regards the aims of Scientology as running counter to Germany 's free and democratic order , and has been monitoring Scientology since 1997 , as have the Offices for the Protection of the Constitution in a number of German Länder . Minister for Family Policy Claudia Nolte instituted the surveillance , saying that the church had totalitarian tendencies and that she would oppose Scientology with all the means at her disposal . 

 The German Church of Scientology has repeatedly challenged the legality of this surveillance in court . In December 2001 , the Administrative Court in Berlin ruled against the Berlin Office for the Protection of the Constitution and ordered it to stop the recruitment and deployment of staff and members of the Church of Scientology Berlin as paid informants . The court ruled that the use of informants was disproportionate . In 2003 , the same court ruled that it was illegal for the Berlin Office for the Protection of the Constitution to include the activities of Scientology in its report , given that the report did not document any activities that were opposed to the constitution . 

 At the federal level , Scientology lost a complaint against continued surveillance by the BfV in November 2004 . The federal court based its opinion on its judgment that the aims of Scientology , as outlined by L. Ron Hubbard in his writings , were incompatible with the German constitution . Lawyers acting for the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution pointed out that Hubbard had written that civil rights , for example , should be restricted to Scientologists , and they asserted that the Scientology organization was taking systematic steps to infiltrate society and government institutions in order to prevent anti @-@ Scientology legislation . Opposing counsel acting for the Church of Scientology had contended that Scientology was non @-@ political , its aims were the liberation of the human being , and that Hubbard 's instructions were valid only within the Church of Scientology and were subject to interpretation , and at any rate there was no effort to implement these instructions in Germany . The court disagreed and ruled that many sources , some of them not accessible to the general public , indicated that the aims of the Church of Scientology did include the abrogation of the principle of equality and other essential human rights . 

 In Saarland , surveillance was stopped by a court as inappropriate in 2005 , because there is no local branch of Scientology and few members . As of 6 May 2008 , the Church of Scientology in Germany dropped the legal battle to prevent surveillance of its activities by the BfV after the North Rhine @-@ Westphalia Higher Administrative Court in Münster refused to hear an appeal on the matter . Being suspected of maintaining " ambitions against the free , democratic basic order " , the Scientology organization added a declaration on human rights and democracy to its bylaws . 

 There is at least one example of surveillance of Scientology by the German intelligence services outside of Germany . In 1998 , the Swiss government detained an agent of the German government , charging him with " carrying out illegal business for a foreign state , working for a political information service and falsifying identity documents " . The German government posted bail for the agent . He was eventually given a 30 @-@ day suspended jail sentence for spying on Scientology , and the German government apologized to Switzerland for the incident . 


 = = " Sect filters " = = 


 A " sect filter " , also known as a " protective declaration " ( Schutzerklärung ) , is a document that requires prospective business partners or employees to acknowledge any association with a sect or new religious movement before entering a business or employment contract . Such sect filters , primarily used to screen out Scientologists , have been drafted by German government agencies for use by businesses . " Sect commissioner 's " offices exist in Germany as part of regional or local government . 

 A work instruction introduced in 1996 requires government staff in the Arbeitsämter – local employment agencies and social security offices operated by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs – to mark companies owned by Scientologists with the letter " S " . Where companies are suspected of having Scientologist staff , prospective employees are alerted to this fact by government staff . Government officials have publicised the names of individual Scientologists and conducted media campaigns against their businesses ; some businesspeople have placed advertisements in the press saying they are not Scientologists in order to avoid the associated stigma . 

 Due to concerns about possible government infiltration by Scientologists , applicants for civil service positions in Bavaria are required to declare whether or not they are Scientologists , and a similar policy has been instituted in Hesse . Companies tendering for government contracts were likewise required to state they are not Scientologists ; in 2001 , this requirement was changed , and firms are now asked to sign a form stating that " the technology of L. Ron Hubbard will not be used in executing the contract " . When it became known that Microsoft 's Windows 2000 operating system included a disk defragmenter developed by Executive Software International ( a company headed by a Scientologist ) , this caused concern among German government officials and clergy over data security and the potential for espionage . To assuage these concerns , Microsoft Germany agreed to provide a means to disable the utility . Following letters of complaint about discrimination from Scientology lawyers , some American companies such as General Electric , IBM and Ford Motor Company instructed their German subsidiaries to cease the use of protective declarations . 

 The city @-@ state of Hamburg set up a full @-@ time office dedicated to opposing Scientology , the Scientology Task Force for the Hamburg Interior Authority , under the leadership of Ursula Caberta . In 2005 , in a case brought by a Scientologist , the Federal Administrative Court of Germany ordered the city of Hamburg to cease recommending the use of protective declarations to its business community , finding that the practice infringed religious freedom . In June 2008 , the Hamburg Administrative Court fined the city of Hamburg 5 @,@ 000 Euros ( $ 7 @,@ 000 ) for not complying with court instructions banning the use of " sect filters . " Internet links to sample filters to be used by businesses had continued to remain available . Eileen Barker , a professor of sociology at the London School of Economics , has noted that " Germany has gone further than any other Western European country in restricting the civil rights of Scientologists . " The Hamburg task force was closed down in August 2010 as a result of budget cuts ; Caberta moved to a position within the Hamburg interior authority , where she continues her work on Scientology . 

 Scientologists have been banned from joining major political parties in Germany such as the Christian Democratic Union , the Christian Social Union of Bavaria , the Social Democratic Party of Germany and the Free Democratic Party . Existing Scientologist members of these parties have been " purged " , according to Time Magazine . Scientologists have been prevented from running employment and au pair agencies in Germany ; Scientologists who were running such agencies had their permits revoked . In 1995 , a sports scientist and former member of the German national fencing team was dismissed from his job at the German Olympic fencing centre after he stated in an interview that he had enjoyed reading books by L. Ron Hubbard and had participated in a course run by a Scientologist management and communication consultancy firm . Thomas Gottschalk , a German TV presenter , was falsely accused in 1993 of having taken part in Scientology courses ; Gottschalk responded by announcing that he had not , and that he would henceforth cease all contact with a friend who had links to Scientology . In 2007 , Günther Oettinger , the Minister @-@ President of the German state of Baden @-@ Württemberg , expressed concern that Scientologist John Travolta was to appear on Gottschalk 's programme , and asked the ZDF TV station to consider revoking the invitation ; the ZDF said that uninviting Travolta would cause greater damage , and that Scientology was not going to be discussed in the programme . 

 In 2010 , the Bavarian Administrative Court ruled that a woman working in a children 's daycare centre , whose employment had been terminated when her ex @-@ husband identified her as a Scientologist , should be reinstated . The woman had demonstrated to the court 's satisfaction that her Scientological beliefs were irrelevant to her work . According to the agreement that concluded the case , she promised not to use Scientology methods in her work , and to inform the children 's parents of her membership in Scientology . 


 = = Initiative to ban Scientology = = 


 In March 2007 , it was reported that German authorities were increasing their efforts to monitor Scientology in response to the opening of a new Scientology headquarters in Berlin . On December 7 , 2007 , German federal and state interior ministers expressed the opinion that the Scientology organization was continuing to pursue anti @-@ constitutional goals , restricting " essential basic and human rights like the dignity of man or the right to equal treatment " , and asked Germany 's domestic intelligence agencies to collect and evaluate the information required for a possible judicial inquiry aimed at banning the organization . 

 The move was criticized by German politicians from all sides of the political spectrum , with legal experts and intelligence agencies expressing concern that an attempt to ban the organization would likely fail in the courts . Sabine Weber , president of the Church of Scientology in Berlin , called the accusations " unrealistic " and " absurd " and said that the German interior ministers ' evaluation was based on " a few sentences out of 500 @,@ 000 pages of Scientological literature " . She added , " I can also find hundreds of quotes in the Bible that are totalitarian but that doesn 't mean I will demand the ban of Christianity . " 

 In November 2008 , the government abandoned its attempts to ban Scientology , after finding insufficient evidence of illegal or unconstitutional activity . The report by the BfV cited knowledge gaps and noted several points that would make the success of any legal undertaking to ban Scientology doubtful . First , the BfV report stated there was no evidence that Scientology could be viewed as a foreign organization ; there were German churches and missions , a German board , German bylaws , and no evidence that the organization was " totally remote @-@ controlled " from the United States . A foreign organization would have been much easier to ban than a German one . The second argument on which those proposing the ban had counted was Scientology 's aggressive opposition to the constitution . Here , the report found that Scientology 's behaviour gave no grounds to assume that Scientology aggressively sought to attack and overthrow Germany 's free and democratic basic order . " Neither its bylaws nor any other utterances " supported the " conclusion that the organization had criminal aims " . The BfV also considered whether there were grounds to act against the Church of Scientology on the basis that they were practising medicine without a licence , but expressed doubts that a court would accept this reasoning . 

 Commenting on the decision to drop the ban attempt , Ehrhart Körting , Berlin 's interior minister , said , " This organization pursues goals – through its writings , its concept and its disrespect for minorities – that we cannot tolerate and that we consider in violation of the constitution . But they put very little of this into practice . The appraisal of the Government at the moment is that [ Scientology ] is a lousy organization , but it is not an organization that we have to take a hammer to . " The Church of Scientology expressed satisfaction with the decision , describing it as the " only one possible " . Monitoring of Scientology 's activities by the German intelligence services continues . 

 In February 2009 , the Berlin Administrative Court ruled that a poster placed by local city authorities on an advertising column next to a bus stop in front of the Berlin Scientology headquarters , warning passers @-@ by of the potential dangers Scientology activities posed to democracy and individual freedom , should be removed . The decision was upheld in July 2009 by the Upper Administrative Court of Berlin @-@ Brandenburg which ruled that the poster violated Scientologists ' basic religious rights . 


 = = Criticism of Germany 's stance = = 


 The United States media , while generally reporting negatively on Scientology in domestic news , has taken an at least partially supportive stance towards Scientology in relation to Germany . Richard Cohen for example , writing in the Washington Post , said in 1996 : " Scientology might be one weird religion , but the German reaction to it is weirder still – not to mention disturbing . " Alan Cowell , writing in the New York Times , wrote in 1997 that the German response to Scientology – motivated by officials ' fear that Scientology " was a totalitarian movement growing , like the Nazi party , from inconsequential beginnings " – was itself redolent of " the Nazi era 's authoritarianism " . 

 The U.S. Department of State has repeatedly claimed that Germany 's actions constitute government and societal discrimination against minority religious groups and expressed its concerns over the violation of Scientologists ' individual rights posed by sect filters . The U.S. Department of State began to include the issue of Scientology in Germany in its annual human rights reports after the 1993 agreement between the Church of Scientology and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service , through which Scientology gained the status of a tax @-@ exempt religion in the United States . That decision also marked the beginning of more intense lobbying efforts by the Church of Scientology in Washington , using paid lobbyists . The State Department 's 1996 human rights report on Germany , released in January 1997 , warned that artists and businesses with Scientology connections " may face boycotts and discrimination , sometimes with government approval . " Past targets of such actions had included Scientologist actors Tom Cruise and John Travolta , as well as jazz pianist Chick Corea . 

 Also in January 1997 , an open letter to then @-@ Chancellor Helmut Kohl appeared , published as a newspaper advertisement in the International Herald Tribune , drawing parallels between the " organized oppression " of Scientologists in Germany and Nazi policies espoused by Germany in the 1930s . The letter was conceived and paid for by Hollywood lawyer Bertram Fields , whose clients have included Tom Cruise and John Travolta , and was signed by 34 prominent figures in the U.S. entertainment industry , including the top executives of MGM , Warner Bros. , Paramount , Universal and Sony Pictures Entertainment as well as actors Dustin Hoffman and Goldie Hawn , director Oliver Stone , writers Mario Puzo and Gore Vidal and talk @-@ show host Larry King . It echoed similar parallels drawn by the Church of Scientology itself , which until then had received scant notice , and was followed by lobbying efforts of Scientology celebrities in Washington . 

 U.S. Department of State spokesman Nicholas Burns rejected the Nazi comparisons in the open letter as " outrageous " and distanced the U.S. government from Nazi comparisons made by the Church of Scientology , saying , " We have criticized the Germans on this , but we aren 't going to support the Scientologists ' terror tactics against the German government . " Chancellor Kohl , commenting on the letter , said that those who signed it " don 't know a thing about Germany and don 't want to know . " German officials argued that " the whole fuss was cranked up by the Scientologists to achieve what we won 't give them : tax @-@ exempt status as a religion . This is intimidation , pure and simple . " Officials explained that precisely because of Germany 's Nazi past , Germany took a determined stance against all " radical cults and sects , including right @-@ wing Nazi groups " , and not just against Scientology . Kohl 's Christian Democratic Union party denounced the letter as " absurd " and cited German court rulings stating that Scientology had primarily economic goals and could legitimately be referred to using phrases such as a " contemptuous cartel of oppression " . 

 In February 1997 , a United States immigration court judge granted asylum to a German Scientologist who claimed she would be subject to religious persecution in her homeland . In April 1997 , John Travolta met personally with U.S. President Bill Clinton at a conference in Philadelphia . Travolta later said Clinton assured him that he would " really love to help " with the " issue over in Germany with Scientology " . According to Travolta , Clinton recalled that " he had a roommate years ago who was a Scientologist and had really liked him , and respected his views on it " , stating that Scientologists " were given an unfair hand in [ Germany ] and that he wanted to fix it " . In September 1997 , John Travolta , Chick Corea and fellow Scientologist Isaac Hayes were heard by the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe ( CSCE , also known as the Helsinki Commission ) , voicing their complaints about the treatment of Scientologists in Germany , and had a briefing with United States National Security Advisor Sandy Berger , whom Clinton had assigned to be " the administration 's Scientology point person " . The German ambassador responded with a letter to the CSCE stating that the German government had come to the conclusion that Scientology 's " pseudo @-@ scientific courses can seriously jeopardize individuals ' mental and physical health and that it exploits its members " , adding that " membership can lead to psychological and physical dependency , to financial ruin , and even to suicide . In addition , there are indications that Scientology poses a threat to Germany 's basic political principles . " 

 A United Nations report in April 1998 raised concerns about the violation of individual rights posed by sect filters . However , it rejected the comparison of the treatment of Scientologists with that of Jews during the Nazi era . 

 In 2000 , the German Stern magazine published the results of its investigation of the asylum case . It asserted that several rejection letters which the woman had submitted as part of her asylum application – ostensibly from potential employers who were rejecting her because she was a Scientologist – had in fact been written by fellow Scientologists at her request and that of Scientology 's Office of Special Affairs , and that she was in personal financial trouble and about to go on trial for tax evasion at the time she applied for asylum . On a 2000 visit to Clearwater , Florida , Ursula Caberta of the Scientology Task Force for the Hamburg Interior Authority likewise alleged that the asylum case had been part of an " orchestrated effort " by Scientology undertaken " for political gain " , and " a spectacular abuse of the U.S. system " . German expatriate Scientologists resident in Clearwater , in turn , accused Caberta of stoking a " hate campaign " in Germany that had " ruined the lives and fortunes of scores of Scientologists " and maintained that Scientologists had not " exaggerated their plight for political gain in the United States . " Mark Rathbun , a ( former ) top Church of Scientology official , said that although Scientology had not orchestrated the case , " there would have been nothing improper if it had . " 

 In 2003 , Joachim Güntner , writing in the Swiss Neue Zürcher Zeitung , noted that Gerhard Besier , a German Christian theologian , director of the Hannah Arendt Institute for Research into Totalitarianism in Dresden and recipient of an honorary doctorate from Lund University , Sweden , for his championing of religious freedom , had been pressured to forego publication of his scientific study of Scientology after having found himself the subject of widespread criticism in the German media for advocating a more tolerant attitude towards Scientology . Güntner concluded that " alarmism " had " triumphed " over science and noted an apparent lack of confidence in Germany 's ability to engage in open public discourse on the matter . 

 The U.S. Department of State 's 2012 report on religious freedom in Germany , published in 2013 , stated that " The status of the Church of Scientology remains in limbo . The Constitutional Court and various courts at the state level have not explicitly ruled that Scientology is a religion . Government agencies at the federal and state level have rules and procedures that discriminate against Scientology as a group and against its members . Four of the major political parties ( the Christian Democratic Union , Christian Social Union , Social Democratic Party , and Free Democratic Party ) ban Scientologists from party membership . [ ... ] Scientologists reported instances of governmental discrimination . Although courts at the state and federal level condemned the improper use of so @-@ called ' sect filters ' to blacklist and boycott Scientologists , they remained in use in the public sector . ' Sect filters ' typically asked potential new employees to confirm in writing that they had no contact with Scientology , did not participate in its training courses , and rejected its doctrines . [ ... ] Catholic and Protestant churches continued to oppose Scientology publically [ sic ] , although press reporting and public reactions to Scientology decreased . Several private organizations issued warnings about after @-@ school study programs run by Scientologists . " 


 = = = Scholarly sources = = = 



 = = = Journalistic sources = = = 



 = = = Government and court documents = = = 



 = = = Scientology sources = = = 



 = = = Scientology sites = = = 


 Scientology.de ( German ) 

 Menschenrechtsbuero.de – Human Rights website of the German Church of Scientology ( German ) 


 = = = German government sites = = = 


 Scientology : Publications of German regional governments – Website of the German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution ( German ) 

 Website of the Hamburg Scientology Task Force ( German ) 


 = Japanese battleship Asahi = 


 Asahi ( 朝日 , Asahi ) was a pre @-@ dreadnought battleship built for the Imperial Japanese Navy ( IJN ) in the late 1890s . As Japan lacked the industrial capacity to build such warships itself , the ship was designed and built in the United Kingdom . Shortly after her arrival in Japan , she became flagship of the Standing Fleet , the IJN 's primary combat fleet . She participated in every major naval battle of the Russo @-@ Japanese War of 1904 – 05 and was lightly damaged during the Battle of the Yellow Sea and the Battle of Tsushima . Asahi saw no combat during World War I , although the ship participated in the Siberian Intervention in 1918 . 

 Reclassified as a coastal defence ship in 1921 , Asahi was disarmed two years later to meet the terms of the Washington Naval Treaty , after which she served as a training and submarine depot ship . She was modified into a submarine salvage and rescue ship before being placed in reserve in 1928 . Asahi was recommissioned in late 1937 , after the start of the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , and used to transport Japanese troops . In 1938 , she was converted into a repair ship and based first at Japanese @-@ occupied Shanghai , China , and then Cam Ranh Bay , French Indochina , from late 1938 to 1941 . The ship was transferred to occupied Singapore in early 1942 to repair a damaged light cruiser and ordered to return home in May . She was sunk en route by the American submarine USS Salmon , although most of her crew survived . 


 = = Background = = 


 Combat experience in the First Sino @-@ Japanese War of 1894 – 95 convinced the Imperial Japanese Navy of weaknesses in the Jeune École naval philosophy , which emphasized torpedo boats and commerce raiding to offset expensive heavily armoured ships . Therefore , Japan promulgated a ten @-@ year naval build @-@ up in early 1896 , to modernize and expand its fleet in preparation for further confrontations , with the construction of six battleships and six armoured cruisers at its core . These ships were paid for from the £ 30 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 indemnity paid by China after losing the First Sino @-@ Japanese War . As with the earlier Fuji and Shikishima classes , Japan lacked the technology and capability to construct its own battleships , and turned again to the United Kingdom for the four remaining battleships of the programme . Asahi , the fifth Japanese battleship to be built in Britain , was ordered from the Clydebank Engineering & Shipbuilding Company shipyard in Clydebank , Scotland in the 1897 annual naval programme . 


 = = Design and description = = 


 Asahi 's design was a modified version of the Formidable @-@ class battleships of the Royal Navy , with two additional 6 @-@ inch ( 152 mm ) guns . The ship had an overall length of 425 feet 3 inches ( 129 @.@ 6 m ) , a beam of 75 feet ( 22 @.@ 9 m ) , and a normal draught of 27 feet 3 inches ( 8 @.@ 3 m ) . She displaced 15 @,@ 200 long tons ( 15 @,@ 400 t ) at normal load . Asahi had a complete double bottom with 55 watertight compartments . Her hull was also subdivided into 223 watertight compartments . She was fitted as a flagship and her crew numbered about 773 officers and enlisted men , including the admiral 's staff . 

 The ship was powered by two vertical triple @-@ expansion steam engines built by Humphrys , Tennant , each driving one propeller , using steam generated by 25 Belleville boilers at a working pressure of 17 @.@ 03 bar ( 1 @,@ 703 kPa ; 247 psi ) . The engines were rated at 15 @,@ 000 indicated horsepower ( 11 @,@ 000 kW ) , using forced draught , and designed to reach a top speed of 18 knots ( 33 km / h ; 21 mph ) although Asahi reached 18 @.@ 3 knots ( 33 @.@ 9 km / h ; 21 @.@ 1 mph ) from 16 @,@ 335 indicated horsepower ( 12 @,@ 181 kW ) during her sea trials on 23 March 1900 . She carried a maximum of 2 @,@ 000 long tons ( 2 @,@ 032 t ) of coal which allowed her to steam for 9 @,@ 000 nautical miles ( 17 @,@ 000 km ; 10 @,@ 000 mi ) at a speed of 10 knots ( 19 km / h ; 12 mph ) . The ship was fitted with three steam @-@ driven 4 @.@ 8 @-@ kilowatt ( 6 @.@ 4 hp ) dynamos . 

 Asahi 's main battery consisted of the same four Elswick Ordnance Company 40 @-@ calibre twelve @-@ inch guns used in all of Japan 's preceding battleships . They were mounted in twin @-@ gun turrets fore and aft of the superstructure . The hydraulically powered mountings allowed the guns to be loaded at all angles of traverse , at a fixed elevation of + 13 @.@ 5 ° . Each mount could traverse a total of 240 degrees . They fired 850 @-@ pound ( 386 kg ) projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 2 @,@ 400 ft / s ( 730 m / s ) . 

 The ship 's secondary armament consisted of fourteen 45 @-@ calibre 6 @-@ inch ( 152 mm ) quick @-@ firing ( QF ) guns mounted in casemates . Eight of these guns were positioned on the main deck and the other six guns were placed above them in the superstructure . They fired 100 @-@ pound ( 45 kg ) shells at a muzzle velocity of 2 @,@ 300 ft / s ( 700 m / s ) . Protection against torpedo @-@ boat attacks was provided by twenty QF 12 @-@ pounder 12 cwt guns . The 12 @-@ pounders fired 3 @-@ inch ( 76 mm ) , 12 @.@ 5 @-@ pound ( 5 @.@ 7 kg ) projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 2 @,@ 359 ft / s ( 719 m / s ) . Lighter guns consisted of eight 47 @-@ millimetre ( 1 @.@ 9 in ) three @-@ pounder Hotchkiss guns and four 47 @-@ millimetre 2 @.@ 5 @-@ pounder Hotchkiss guns . The former were mounted in the superstructure and the latter in the fighting tops . The three @-@ pounder gun fired 3 @.@ 19 @-@ pound ( 1 @.@ 45 kg ) projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 1 @,@ 927 ft / s ( 587 m / s ) , while the 2 @.@ 5 @-@ pounder fired 2 @.@ 5 @-@ pound ( 1 @.@ 1 kg ) shells at a muzzle velocity of 1 @,@ 420 ft / s ( 430 m / s ) . The ship was also equipped with four submerged 18 @-@ inch torpedo tubes , two on each broadside . 

 The waterline main belt of Asahi consisted of Harvey armour 8 feet ( 2 @.@ 44 m ) high , of which 3 feet 8 inches ( 1 @.@ 11 m ) was above the waterline at normal load , and had a maximum thickness of 9 inches ( 229 mm ) for the middle 224 feet ( 68 @.@ 28 m ) of the ship . It was only 4 inches ( 102 mm ) thick at the ends of the ship and was surmounted by a six @-@ inch strake of armour that ran between the barbettes . The barbettes were 14 inches ( 356 mm ) thick , but only 10 inches ( 254 mm ) behind the upper armour strake . The barbette hoods were protected by 10 inches of armour on their face while their sides were 6 inches thick and the roof was 1 @.@ 5 inches ( 38 mm ) thick . Diagonal bulkheads connecting the barbettes to the side armour were 12 – 14 inches thick , but only 6 inches thick at the lower deck level . The frontal armour of the casemates protecting the secondary armament was also 6 inches thick with the rear protected by 2 @-@ inch ( 51 mm ) armour plates . The flat portion of the deck armour was 2 @.@ 5 inches ( 64 mm ) thick and 4 inches ( 102 mm ) thick where it sloped down to the sides of the ship . The conning tower was protected by 14 inches of armour . 

 Asahi , like all the other Japanese battleships of the time , was fitted with four Barr and Stroud FA3 coincidence rangefinders that had an effective range of 8 @,@ 000 yards ( 7 @,@ 300 m ) . The ships were also fitted with 24 @-@ power magnification telescopic gunsights . 


 = = Construction and career = = 


 Asahi , meaning " rising sun " , a poetic name for Japan from a stanza of waka poetry , was laid down on 1 August 1898 in Clydebank , Scotland , by the Clydebank Engineering & Shipbuilding Co. and completed by John Brown & Company , which purchased the firm before Asahi was completed . She was launched on 13 March 1899 and completed on 31 July 1900 . Her completion was delayed by about three months when her bottom plating required repairs after running aground off Southsea following sea trials . The ship departed England , after repairs in Portsmouth , on the day of her completion , and arrived at Yokosuka , Japan , on 23 October 1900 . Asahi became flagship of the Standing Fleet on 22 May 1901 and was assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet when the Combined Fleet was re @-@ formed on 28 December 1903 . 

 At the start of the Russo @-@ Japanese War , Asahi , commanded by Captain Hikohachi Yamada , was assigned to the 1st Division of the 1st Fleet . She participated in the Battle of Port Arthur on 9 February 1904 , when Vice Admiral Tōgō Heihachirō led the 1st Fleet in an attack on the Russian ships of the Pacific Squadron anchored just outside Port Arthur . Tōgō had expected the surprise night attack by his destroyers to be much more successful than it was , anticipating that the Russians would be badly disorganized and weakened , but they had recovered from their surprise and were ready for his attack . The Japanese ships were spotted by the protected cruiser Boyarin , which was patrolling offshore and alerted the Russian defences . Tōgō chose to attack the Russian coastal defences with his main armament and engage the ships with his secondary guns . Splitting his fire proved to be a poor decision as the Japanese eight @-@ inch ( 203 mm ) and six @-@ inch guns inflicted little damage on the Russian ships , which concentrated all their fire on the Japanese ships with some effect . Although many ships on both sides were hit , Russian casualties numbered only 17 , while the Japanese suffered 60 killed and wounded before Tōgō disengaged . Asahi was not hit during the engagement . 

 The ship participated in the action of 13 April , when Tōgō successfully lured out a portion of the Pacific Squadron , including Vice Admiral Stepan Makarov 's flagship , the battleship Petropavlovsk . When Makarov spotted the five battleships of the 1st Division , he turned back for Port Arthur and Petropavlovsk struck a minefield laid by the Japanese the previous night . The Russian battleship sank in less than two minutes after one of her magazines exploded , and Makarov was one of the 677 killed . Emboldened by his success , Tōgō resumed long @-@ range bombardment missions , prompting the Russians to lay more minefields , which sank two Japanese battleships the following month . 

 During the Battle of the Yellow Sea on 10 August , Asahi , now commanded by Captain Tsunaakira Nomoto , was second in line of the column of Japanese battleships , behind Mikasa , and was one of the primary targets of the Russian ships . She was only hit by a single 12 @-@ inch shell that wounded two crewmen . Both guns in her aft 12 @-@ inch gun turret , however , were disabled by shells that detonated prematurely in their barrels . In turn she concentrated most of her fire upon the battleships Poltava and Tsesarevich although both ships were only lightly damaged by the Japanese shells , which generally failed to penetrate any armour and detonated on impact . The ship made the critical hits of the battle , however , when two of her 12 @-@ inch shells struck the bridge of Tsesarevich , killing the Russian squadron commander , Vice Admiral Wilgelm Vitgeft , two of his staff officers and the ship 's quartermaster . The ship 's wheel was jammed to port by wreckage and then slowed to a halt which threw the rest of the Russian ships into total confusion . The second @-@ in @-@ command , Rear Admiral Prince Pavel Ukhtomsky , eventually gained control of the remainder of the squadron and headed back to Port Arthur . Slightly more than two months later , on 26 October , Asahi struck a mine off Port Arthur while on blockade duty . Severely damaged , she was under repair at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from November 1904 to April 1905 . Russian naval forces in the Far East had been destroyed or neutralized by this time and the Russians were forced to transfer ships from the Baltic Fleet that did not arrive until May . 


 = = = Battle of Tsushima = = = 


 At the Battle of Tsushima on 27 May 1905 , Asahi again followed the battleship Mikasa into combat , this time against the Second and Third Pacific Squadrons . Mikasa opened fire at the battleship Knyaz Suvorov , the Russian flagship , at 14 : 10 , and was joined by Asahi and the armoured cruiser Azuma shortly afterwards . Within an hour the Japanese ships had started a serious fire aboard the Russian ship , badly wounded the fleet commander , Vice Admiral Zinovy Rozhestvensky , knocked out her rear 12 @-@ inch gun turret , and jammed Knyaz Suvorov 's steering so that she fell out of formation . The Russian ships were concentrating their fire on Mikasa during the early part of the battle and Asahi was not damaged during this time . Tōgō was able to cross the T of the Russian squadrons . Knyaz Suvorov 's steering was later repaired , but she blundered between the Japanese and Russian fleets several times later in the battle and was heavily damaged . Asahi seems to have mostly engaged the battleships Borodino and Oryol in the late stages of the battle , although Fuji fired the shots that caused the Borodino 's magazines to explode and sink her . Asahi fired more twelve @-@ inch shells , 142 , than any other ship during the battle . In total , the ship was hit six times during the battle , but none of them damaged her significantly . While Asahi 's casualties are not precisely known , the Japanese only lost 110 men killed and 590 wounded to all causes during the battle . The battle was a total Japanese victory with five Russian battleships captured and incorporated into the IJN . 

 Captain W. C. Pakenham , the Royal Navy 's official military observer under the Anglo @-@ Japanese Alliance , took notes of the battle 's progress from a deck chair on Asahi 's exposed quarterdeck . His report confirmed the superiority of Japanese training and tactics and publicized the victory in the West . 


 = = = Later career = = = 


 In 1908 , Asahi was part of the Japanese fleet that escorted the American Great White Fleet through Japanese waters during its round @-@ the @-@ globe voyage . The ship was assigned to the 1st Fleet in 1908 and 1910 – 11 . Asahi became a gunnery training ship in 1914 , and was re @-@ armed in 1917 with Japanese guns replacing her original British @-@ made guns . The same year , she was assigned to the 5th Division of the 3rd Fleet . In 1918 , Asahi became flagship of her division and participated in the Japanese intervention in the Russian Civil War . She escorted troop convoys to the Russian Far East and was guard ship at Kamchatka from January to August 1918 . Asahi was reclassified as a first @-@ class coastal defence ship on 1 September 1921 , and began disarmament in 1922 at Yokosuka in compliance with the terms of the Washington Naval Treaty . She was reclassified as a training and submarine depot ship on 1 April 1923 and her disarmament was completed in July of that same year . Her displacement dropped to 11 @,@ 441 long tons ( 11 @,@ 625 t ) with the loss of her armour and guns , and her speed was limited to 12 knots ( 22 km / h ; 14 mph ) . 

 The navy decided to convert Asahi into a submarine salvage ship and she began the first stage of her conversion with the installation of specialized salvage equipment from February to August 1925 . From 1926 to October 1927 , the ship 's 25 Belleville boilers were replaced with four Kanpon Type RO boilers at Kure Naval Arsenal . One of her two funnels was also removed , and two large lifting frames were installed as part of the second stage of her conversion . The ship conducted experiments in submarine rescue using the old German submarine 0 @-@ 1 ( ex @-@ U @-@ 125 ) . In May 1928 , Asahi was fitted with a 62 @-@ foot @-@ 4 @-@ inch ( 19 m ) compressed @-@ air aircraft catapult on her forecastle and successfully launched an E2N1 Type 15 seaplane . After repeated accidents , the catapult was replaced by one powered by gunpowder . On the completion of testing in 1928 , Asahi was placed in reserve . 

 Reclassified as a repair ship on 16 August 1937 , Asahi was taken out of reserve in November , after the Marco Polo Bridge Incident that started the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , and was used as a transport to land troops in an amphibious landing at Hangzhou Bay . Afterwards she began conversion at Kure , Japan , into a repair ship ; this was completed on 18 December 1938 . Asahi was fitted with a dummy wooden main battery fore and aft to resemble an old battleship after her arrival in Shanghai on 29 December . In May 1939 she was modified to act as a torpedo depot ship and carried out patrols between 29 May and 7 November 1940 . She was transferred to Camranh Bay , French Indochina , on 15 November 1940 and later transported the 11th Base Unit from Kure to Camranh Bay 19 November – 7 December 1941 . 

 From 13 March 1942 , Asahi was stationed at Singapore , and in April her crew performed repairs on the light cruiser Naka , which had been torpedoed by the submarine USS Seawolf off Christmas Island . Departing Singapore for Kure on 22 May , escorted by the subchaser CH @-@ 9 , Asahi was sighted by the submarine USS Salmon on the night of 25 / 26 May 1942 , 100 miles ( 160 km ) southeast of Cape Padaran , Indochina . Of Salmon 's four torpedoes , two hit the ship in her port central boiler room and aft spaces . At 01 : 03 , moments after being hit , Asahi sank at 10 ° 00 ′ N 110 ° 00 ′ E. Sixteen men were killed in the attack ; the ship 's captain and 582 crewmen were rescued by CH @-@ 9 . 



 = Training Day ( The Office ) = 


 " Training Day " is the twentieth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series The Office and the shows 146th episode overall . It originally aired on NBC on April 14 , 2011 . The episode was written by Daniel Chun and directed by Paul Lieberstein . This episode marks the first appearance of Deangelo Vickers ( Will Ferrell ) in the series . 

 The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton , Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company . In the episode , Michael Scott 's ( Steve Carell ) replacement appears in the office , to start receiving training from Michael . The new manager , Deangelo Vickers ( Will Ferrell ) , has everyone hoping to make good first impressions : Andy Bernard ( Ed Helms ) finds himself awkwardly typecast while Jim Halpert ( John Krasinski ) and Pam Halpert ( Jenna Fischer ) worry that they 've come on too strong . Only Dwight Schrute ( Rainn Wilson ) is apathetic about the new leader . 

 " Training Day " received mixed reviews from television critics , with many commenting on Ferrell 's appearance . The episode was also viewed by 4 @.@ 16 million viewers and received a 4 @.@ 0 / 11 percent rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 , ranking first in its timeslot . The episode ultimately ranked as the highest @-@ rated NBC series of the night . 


 = = Synopsis = = 


 Michael is waiting in a hotel bar for his replacement Deangelo Vickers ( Will Ferrell ) to show up . While waiting , he meets a man at the bar and the two instantly hit it off . When Michael calls Vickers to see where he is , it is revealed that the man Michael has been talking to is actually Deangelo , though it takes the two some time to actually realize this . 

 Deangelo comes to the branch the next day , and most of the staff is eager to make a good first impression . Kevin wears his toupee , Jim and Pam believe they have started off well by mentioning their baby , and Deangelo designates Andy as the office " funny guy " when he reveals that he carries name tags around to avoid situations like the one Deangelo and Michael were in . Meanwhile , Dwight is not pleased that he was not selected to replace Michael , believing that Michael put in a good recommendation for him . Michael becomes disturbed , however , when Deangelo wants to make some changes , such as how Erin answers the phone . 

 While Deangelo gets annoyed with Jim and Pam , he loves the antics of Andy , who has resorted to physical comedy when his jokes fall flat , getting to the point where he pours hot coffee on his pants and ( at Deangelo 's urging ) eats soap ; Andy tells the camera with dazed sadness that " this is my life now " . Deangelo 's popularity with the employees causes Michael to get jealous to the point where he passes out peanut butter sandwiches , despite Deangelo 's peanut allergy . Deangelo then assembles the staff in the " multipurpose room " , including Dwight , who learned from Gabe that Michael did not put in a recommendation and thus snubs Michael . Jim quietly tells Michael that he chose to resign his job and needs to come to terms with both that choice and the fact that life is going to go on at the office . Deangelo then steps out of his meeting and asks Michael for advice for how to run the meeting , saying that he 's a good manager and Dunder Mifflin won 't be the same without him . The two make up with a reverse hug , Deangelo telling him that he should start enjoying his retirement . Michael returns to his office while Deangelo conducts his meeting in the conference room . 

 In another effort to impress Deangelo , Jim and Pam bring in Cece , to which Deangelo reacts positively . While they celebrate getting back on his good side , Deangelo reveals to the camera that he is in fact indifferent to Cece and was just being polite . 


 = = Production = = 


 The episode was written by co @-@ executive producer Daniel Chun , his fourth writing credit of the series . It was directed by then @-@ showrunner Paul Lieberstein , his sixth directing credit of the series . The episode marked the first appearance of Will Ferrell 's four @-@ episode arc on the series and is also one of series star , Carell 's last episodes as a regular on the series . Ferrell signed on to appear in Steve Carell 's final three episodes , and the first episode without Carell , " The Inner Circle " , to make Carell 's transition easier . Carell had decided to leave the series , because " I just think it 's time ... I want to fulfill my contract . When I first signed on I had a contract for seven seasons , and this coming year is my seventh . I just thought it was time for my character to go " . Ferrell initially called the producers and offered to appear in Carell 's last season , because he 's " a fan and wanted to commemorate Carell ’ s swan song " . He had previously starred alongside Carell , in the 2004 film , Anchorman : The Legend of Ron Burgundy . 

 The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode . The cut scenes include a sequence in which Michael and Deangelo discuss cancer jokes and the 2010 film Megamind — an animated film that featured the voice of Ferrell — while drinking vodka , shots of Michael and Deangelo discussing their enjoyment for coffee , and Dwight attempting to appease his new boss . 


 = = Reception = = 



 = = = Ratings = = = 


 In its original American broadcast , " Training Day " was viewed by an estimated 7 @.@ 871 million viewers and received a 4 @.@ 0 rating / 11 % share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 . This means that it was seen by 4 @.@ 0 % of all 18- to 49 @-@ year @-@ olds , and 11 % of all 18- to 49 @-@ year @-@ olds watching television at the time of the broadcast . This marked a rise in the ratings from the previous episode , " Garage Sale " , which can be attributed to Ferrell 's guest appearance . The episode ranked first in its timeslot , beating the Fox crime drama Bones , which scored a 3 @.@ 5 / 10 percent relating in the 18 @-@ 49 demographic ; a rerun of the ABC medical drama Grey 's Anatomy and a rerun of the CBS crime drama CSI : Crime Scene Investigation . 


 = = = Reviews = = = 


 " Training Day " received mixed reviews from television critics . IGN writer Cindy White wrote that Deangelo was not given a proper introduction and that he wasn 't distinguished from Michael 's character . She also went on to criticize Jim , Pam and Dwight 's reaction to Deangelo as the new manager , particular that of Jim and Pam , writing that " it 's becoming painfully obvious that the longtime writers don 't know what to do with them anymore " . However , she concluded that the episode continued the seventh season 's improvement over the sixth , and that it showed potential for future episodes of the season . She ultimately gave the episode a 7 @.@ 5 out of 10 rating , denoting a " good " episode . The A.V. Club reviewer Myles McNutt praised Michael 's reactions to the office easily ignoring him for Deangelo , calling the final shot of him walking into his office alone " quite effective " , and that Dwight 's reaction to not being suggested to be Michael 's replacement made it more " meaningful " . Despite this , he continued by saying that the series was not " sophisticated " enough to use this plotline effectively and criticized the writing for the cast , which made them look " stupid " for " cheap humor " and a " enormously shallow laughter " . He ultimately gave the episode a " C + " . Alan Sepinwall , a columnist for HitFix , complimented the chemistry between Ferrell and Carell , but criticized the storyline which eventually came down to Michael " being petulant about not being the center of attention every minute of every day " , negatively comparing it to " Viewing Party " . Despite this , he noted that Ferrell 's presence did involve several funny moments . 

 Bonnie Stiernberg , for Paste , was more positive , writing that she preferred the use of comedy , following the emotional episode , " Garage Sale " . She ultimately gave it an 8 @.@ 7 out of 10 . Will Ferrell 's performance was especially noted by critics . McNutt complimented Ferrell 's " nuanced " performance , but called his character " uninteresting " . Stiernberg praised his dynamic with Carell , comparing it to their previous roles in Anchorman . His later appearances in the series also received similar mixed reviews For instance , McNutt called Ferrell 's scenes a " momentum killer " in " Goodbye , Michael " , whereas Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone called his performance in the same episode " pure magic " . 



 = J. C. W. Beckham = 


 John Crepps Wickliffe Beckham ( August 5 , 1869 – January 9 , 1940 ) was the 35th Governor of Kentucky and a United States Senator from Kentucky . He was the state 's first popularly elected senator following passage of the Seventeenth Amendment . 

 Descended from a prominent political family , Beckham was chosen as Democrat William Goebel 's running mate in the gubernatorial election of 1899 despite the fact that he was not yet of legal age to serve as governor if called to do so . Goebel lost the election to Republican William S. Taylor , but the Kentucky General Assembly disputed the election results . During the political wrangling that followed , an unknown assassin shot Goebel . A day later the General Assembly invalidated enough votes to give the election to Goebel , who was sworn into office on his deathbed . Taylor claimed the election had been stolen by the Democratic majority in the General Assembly and a legal fight ensued between him and Beckham over the governorship . Beckham ultimately prevailed and Taylor fled the state . 

 Following his term as governor , Beckham made a bid to become a U.S. Senator . His stance in favor of prohibition cost him the votes of four legislators in his own party and the seat went to Republican William O. Bradley . Six years later Beckham secured the seat by popular election , but he lost his re @-@ election bid largely because of his pro @-@ temperance views and his opposition to women 's suffrage . Though he continued to play an active role in state politics for another two decades , he never returned to elected office , failing in his gubernatorial bid in 1927 and his senatorial campaign in 1936 . He died in Louisville on January 9 , 1940 . 


 = = Early life = = 


 J. C. W. Beckham was born at Wickland , near Bardstown in Nelson County , Kentucky , son of William Netherton and Julia Tevis ( Wickliffe ) Beckham . His maternal grandfather , Charles A. Wickliffe , was governor of Kentucky from 1839 to 1840 and served as postmaster general in the administration of John Tyler . His uncle , Robert C. Wickliffe , served as governor of Louisiana . 

 Beckham obtained his early education at Roseland Academy in Bardstown . In 1881 he served as a page in the Kentucky House of Representatives at the age of 12 . Later , he enrolled at Central University ( now Eastern Kentucky University ) in Richmond , Kentucky but was forced to quit school at the age of 17 to support his widowed mother . Two years later , he became principal of Bardstown public schools , serving from 1888 to 1893 . Concurrently , he studied law at the University of Kentucky , where he earned his law degree in 1889 . He was admitted to the bar , and commenced practice in Bardstown in 1893 . He also served as president of the Young Democrats ' Club of Nelson County . 


 = = Political career = = 


 Beckham 's political career began in 1894 when he was elected without opposition to the Kentucky House of Representatives . He served four consecutive terms and was Speaker of the House in 1898 , his final year in the House . He also served as a delegate to every Democratic National Convention from 1900 to 1920 . 


 = = = Governor of Kentucky = = = 


 Democrat William Goebel chose Beckham as his running mate in the Kentucky gubernatorial election of 1899 . Goebel was hesitant about the selection because he wanted someone who could deliver the vote of his home county in the general election , and Beckham 's native Nelson County was already committed to a rival candidate . But friends of Goebel assured him that Beckham would be loyal to Goebel 's reform agenda , whereas the two other men Goebel was considering as running mates would " stack the Senate committees against him . " Beckham was not yet 30 , the minimum age to serve as governor , at the time of his selection . 

 Goebel lost a close election to Republican William S. Taylor . When the General Assembly 's session opened on January 2 , 1900 , the election results were immediately challenged . With Democrats in control of both houses of the Assembly , the results seemed sure to be reversed . The Assembly was still deliberating on January 30 , 1900 , when Goebel was shot by an unknown assailant as he entered the state capitol building . The following day , as Goebel was being treated for his wounds at a local hotel , the General Assembly invalidated enough votes to give him the election . He was sworn into office from his bed the same day . Three days later Goebel died , never having risen from the bed . 

 Legislative chaos ensued as Taylor refused to acknowledge the Assembly 's decision and vacate the governorship . The Republicans in the legislature obeyed Taylor 's orders , while the Democrats ignored Taylor and followed the orders of their leadership . Finally , on February 21 , 1900 , Taylor and Beckham agreed to let the courts settle the matter . The case first went before the Louisville Circuit Court , which found in favor of Beckham . Republicans appealed to the Kentucky Court of Appeals , at that time the court of last resort in the state . On April 6 , 1900 , the Court of Appeals upheld the ruling of the lower court . Taylor appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States , which declined to hear the case on May 21 , 1900 . Taylor 's only supporter on the court was Kentuckian John Marshall Harlan . 

 Following the Supreme Court ruling , Taylor fled to Indianapolis , Indiana , fearing he would be implicated in Goebel 's assassination . Beckham became acting governor , but because of the unusual circumstances surrounding the election , a special election was held November 6 , 1900 , to determine who would complete Goebel 's unexpired term . Beckham ( now of age ) won the election over Republican John W. Yerkes by fewer than 4 @,@ 000 votes . Shortly following the special election , Beckham married Jean Raphael Fuqua of Owensboro . The couple had two sons . 

 As governor Beckham sought to unite his party and the state . As part of this effort he supported changes to the blatantly partisan Goebel Election Law , authored by his late running mate while the latter was a member of the General Assembly . He stressed non @-@ controversial issues such as improvements to roads and the state 's educational system . He recommended passage of a law to set uniform school textbook prices , a reform both he and Goebel had advocated during the gubernatorial campaign . However , his passive leadership ensured that the General Assembly did little to address his agenda . The only major pieces of legislation passed during Beckham 's term were a tax increase that added a half million dollars to the state 's revenue and a child labor law that forbade children under 14 to work without their parents ' consent . 


 = = = Second term = = = 


 Although the Kentucky Constitution prohibited governors from serving consecutive terms , Beckham announced he would seek a full term as governor in 1903 . His candidacy was challenged in court , but the court ruled Beckham had not served a full first term and was eligible to run . Due to his record of reconciliation and supporting non @-@ controversial reforms , he had no significant opposition in winning his party 's nomination . His record also deprived his Republican opponent , Morris B. Belknap , of any significant campaign issue in the general election . Beckham defeated Belknap and three minor candidates . 

 In his message to the legislature in 1904 , Beckham again raised the issue of a uniform school textbook law , which had not passed during his first term . The law was one of few significant reforms that passed during the 1904 session . During the session funds were approved for building a new capitol building and a memorial to the late Governor Goebel . 

 In March 1904 , Beckham signed the Day Law mandating racial segregation of all schools in Kentucky . Berea College , a private college in eastern Kentucky that had been integrated since the 1850s , immediately filed suit to challenge the law . The substance of the law was upheld in the circuit court and the Kentucky Court of Appeals . Berea appealed to the Supreme Court , and in 1908 the court handed down an 8 – 1 decision against the college . Only John Marshall Harlan dissented . 

 Near the close of the 1904 session , legislators approved the creation of Beckham County from parts of Carter , Elliott , and Lewis counties . Olive Hill was made the county seat . Soon the county 's existence was challenged in court on grounds that it fell short of the 400 square miles ( 1 @,@ 000 km2 ) required by the state constitution and that it reduced the counties it was carved from to less than 400 square miles ( 1 @,@ 000 km2 ) . Carter County joined the lawsuit , claiming the border of Beckham County passed too close to Grayson , the seat of Carter County , and Vanceburg , the seat of Lewis County . The state constitution forbade county borders to pass within 10 miles ( 16 km ) of a county seat . On April 29 , 1904 , the Kentucky Court of Appeals found in favor of the plaintiffs and dissolved Beckham County . 

 During the 1906 legislative session , Beckham urged investigation and prosecution of corrupt insurance companies , following the lead of New York attorney Charles Evans Hughes . In particular , he recommended reducing the practice of deferred dividends , which allowed the insurance companies to keep large stores of cash on @-@ hand for illegal purposes . He further advocated that insurance companies doing business in the state be required to invest a certain percentage of their earnings in Kentucky , bolstering the its economy and providing policyholders some protection against fraud . 

 Beckham refused to send troops into the western part of the state to quell the ongoing Black Patch Tobacco Wars . He cited constitutional reasons for his refusal , but more probably his reasons were political – the Democrats were dominant in this region and he didn 't want to challenge his own party . By collecting some old Civil War debts from the federal government , Beckham virtually eliminated the state 's debt . Encouraged by the state 's improved finances , the General Assembly voted to expand two of the state 's normal schools , Western State Teachers College in Bowling Green ( later Western Kentucky University ) and Eastern State Teachers College in Richmond ( later part of Eastern Kentucky University ) . 

 With a successful legislative session behind him , Beckham made a bold political move in June 1906 : he orchestrated an effort to set the Democratic gubernatorial and senatorial primaries in November – a full year before the gubernatorial election and two years before the senatorial election . Beckham wanted the Senate seat , and moving the primary up two years would allow him to secure his party 's nomination while he was still governor . It also allowed him to use his influence as governor to sway the party 's choice of his potential successor as governor . State Auditor Samuel Wilbur Hager was Beckham 's choice for governor and easily won the early primary over challenger N.B. Hays . Former governor James B. McCreary challenged Beckham for the senatorial nomination , but Beckham won by more than 11 @,@ 000 votes . 


 = = = U.S. Senator = = = 


 Beckham 's term as governor ended December 10 , 1907 . In January 1908 he faced the legislature as the Democratic nominee for a seat in the U.S. Senate by virtue of the primary held two years earlier . The Republicans nominated former governor William O. Bradley . On the first ballot Beckham secured 66 of the needed 69 votes ; Bradley received 64 votes . Seven Democrats had not voted for Beckham . Over the next six weeks , 25 more votes were taken with neither man securing a majority , even though William Jennings Bryan , the Democratic nominee for president , campaigned for Beckham . Some Democrats pressured Beckham to withdraw and allow a more palatable Democrat to run , but he refused . On the 29th ballot , taken near the end of February 1908 , Bradley finally secured a majority after four Democrats crossed party lines to vote for him . 

 Beckham 's ardent support of prohibition likely cost him the election . His position put him at odds with Henry Watterson , editor of the powerful Louisville Courier @-@ Journal . As governor Beckham had crossed the liquor interests and the political machinery in Louisville . When the Kentucky Court of Appeals invalidated the results of Louisville 's municipal elections due to interference by the city 's " whiskey ring " in May 1907 , Beckham appointed Robert Worth Bingham , a young lawyer and fellow prohibitionist , as interim mayor until elections could be held in November . Bingham eliminated grafting in the police department , closed gambling houses and enforced blue laws closing saloons on Sunday . Following this , the whiskey ring announced Beckham had forfeited the support of Louisville 's legislators . In the senatorial election in 1908 , three of the four Democrats who voted against Beckham were from Louisville . Following his defeat , Beckham returned to his law practice . 

 Six years later Beckham again attempted to win the Senate seat . Due to the passage of the Seventeenth Amendment , the senator would not be elected by the legislature , but by popular vote . In the Democratic primary Beckham defeated Augustus O. Stanley , a 12 @-@ year veteran congressman . The Republican nominee was former governor Augustus E. Willson . Bolstered by his support of President Woodrow Wilson , Beckham won the election by 32 @,@ 000 votes . 

 Beckham served as chairman of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Department of Labor from 1915 to 1917 and on the Senate Committee on Military Affairs . In the latter position he was influential in securing two large military training posts for Kentucky , Camp Zachary Taylor and Fort Knox . Though Camp Zachary Taylor was abandoned after World War I , Fort Knox became the home of the United States Bullion Depository . When the United States entered World War I , Beckham continued to back President Wilson and supported the League of Nations . 

 True to his prohibitionist stance , Beckham supported passage of the Eighteenth Amendment forbidding the import and sale of alcohol in the United States . The amendment was ratified and became effective in January 1920 . Believing women should be protected from involvement in politics , Beckham opposed the Nineteenth Amendment , which granted women 's suffrage . The amendment failed on February 10 , 1919 , but passed on June 4 , 1919 . Beckham voted against it both times . 

 The Democrats renominated Beckham without opposition in 1920 . His opponent in the general election was Republican Richard P. Ernst . Prohibition had destroyed the distilling industry and the saloon business in the state , and in areas where these industries were prominent Beckham received more than 5 @,@ 000 fewer votes than Democratic presidential nominee James M. Cox . He was also hurt by the women 's vote and by his support of President Wilson , who had lost popularity since Beckham 's election in 1914 . Ernst won the election by fewer than 5 @,@ 000 votes , winning the race with 50 @.@ 3 percent of the vote to Beckham 's 49 @.@ 7 percent . During his single term in the Senate Beckham served alongside three other U.S. Senators from Kentucky : Ollie M. James , George B. Martin and Augustus O. Stanley . 


 = = Later life and death = = 


 Following his term in the Senate , Beckham resumed his legal practice in Louisville . He sought another term as governor in 1927 . This time he had the support of the Louisville Courier @-@ Journal , which had been purchased by his ally , Robert W. Bingham . He was opposed by a powerful political machine known as the Jockey Club , whose main interest was securing legislation to allow parimutuel betting at the state 's horse racetracks . 

 The Jockey Club ran a candidate in both parties ' primary elections . In the Democratic primary Beckham defeated the Club 's relatively obscure candidate , Robert T. Crowe . Flem D. Sampson , the Club 's nominee in the Republican primary , won his party 's nomination . In the general election Beckham could not secure the support of Democratic governor William J. Fields , who had been elected with the help of the Jockey Club . Despite the Democrats winning every other contest on the ballot , including the race for lieutenant governor , Beckham lost to Sampson by more than 32 @,@ 000 votes . It was estimated that the Club spent over $ 500 @,@ 000 to defeat him . 

 Beckham was expected to be the Democrats ' nominee for governor in 1935 , but the death of his son in late 1934 left him distraught and his wife opposed to another campaign . The Democrats turned to A. B. " Happy " Chandler of Henderson , who won the election . Beckham supported Chandler 's bid , and in return Chandler appointed him to the Kentucky Public Service Commission in 1936 . Beckham also served on the Department of Business Regulations Commission and chaired the State Government Reorganization Commission . 

 Beckham attempted to return to the Senate in 1936 . The head of the Jockey Club , James B. Brown , had lost his fortune and influence when his banking empire crashed in 1930 . In 1933 Beckham 's ally , Robert Bingham , had been appointed ambassador to the Court of St. James 's , increasing his prominence and influence . Beckham also enjoyed the support of the United Mine Workers and Louisville mayor Neville Miller . The race was complicated , though , by the entry of John Y. Brown , a Democrat who was a U.S. Representative and former Speaker of the Kentucky House of Representatives . He had agreed to support Chandler 's bid for the governorship in exchange for Chandler 's support in his run for the Senate . However , Chandler threw his support to Beckham , and while Brown was not able to win the seat without the support of Bingham and Chandler , he did garner 85 @,@ 000 votes , most of them at Beckham 's expense . Democratic incumbent M. M. Logan retained the seat by 2 @,@ 385 votes . 

 Beckham died in Louisville on January 9 , 1940 , and was buried in Frankfort Cemetery in Frankfort , Kentucky . Beckham County , Oklahoma , was named in his honor at the suggestion of a Kentuckian who was serving as a delegate to Oklahoma 's constitutional convention in 1907 . Wickland , his birthplace , was added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 16 , 1973 . 



 = 1888 – 89 New Zealand Native football team = 


 The 1888 – 89 New Zealand Native football team was a New Zealand rugby union team that toured Britain , Ireland , Australia and New Zealand in 1888 and 1889 . It mostly comprised players of Māori ancestry , and also included some Pākehā ( white New Zealanders ) . A wholly private endeavour , the tour was not under the auspices of any official rugby authority ; it was organised by New Zealand international player Joseph Warbrick , promoted by civil servant Thomas Eyton , and managed by James Scott , a publican . The Natives were the first New Zealand team to perform a haka , and also the first to wear all black . They played 107 rugby matches during the tour , as well as a small number of Victorian Rules football and association football matches in Australia . Having made a significant impact on the development of New Zealand rugby , the Natives were inducted into the International Rugby Board Hall of Fame in 2008 . 

 After a preliminary tour of New Zealand in 1888 , the side travelled to England via Melbourne and Suez . The Māori players initially provoked curiosity due to their race , but the British press subsequently expressed some surprise that the side was not as " Māori " as they had expected . Playing their first match , on 3 October against Surrey , the team was subjected to a taxing match schedule , and frequently played three matches per week . Their early matches included a 9 – 0 loss to Middlesex , but their form improved in November , when they won 10 of their 13 matches . The team played its first international match on 1 December , against Ireland , and won 13 – 4 . This was followed by a win over one of the strongest English county teams , Yorkshire , and a 5 – 0 defeat against the Wales national team . By January 1889 the Natives had played 36 matches in less than three months , winning 22 of them ; they had spent most of their time in the north of England , where the playing strength was strongest and the crowds largest and most profitable . 

 In a return match on 19 January , Yorkshire fielded a stronger side than in the first match and inflicted one of the Natives ' heaviest losses , a 16 – 4 defeat . The team then went undefeated until 16 February , when they faced England . Officials of the strictly amateur Rugby Football Union ( RFU ) had become increasingly concerned at the behaviour of the New Zealanders , regarding them as unsportsmanlike , and tensions reached a nadir in the aftermath of the England international , during which the RFU secretary George Rowland Hill , refereeing the game , awarded a number of controversial tries to England , prompting three of the Natives to temporarily leave the field in protest ; England eventually won 7 – 0 . The Natives apologised afterwards for their behaviour , but the damage was not repaired . The New Zealanders left England without an official send @-@ off , and travelled to Australia where they toured Victoria , New South Wales and Queensland . They then returned to New Zealand , where they displayed a level of combination not seen in their home country before . They went 31 games undefeated before losing their final match , on 24 August 1889 , 7 – 2 to Auckland . 

 The Natives ' final record in rugby matches was 78 wins , 6 draws and 23 losses . They introduced a number of tactical innovations to New Zealand rugby on their return home , and their tour contributed to the formation of the New Zealand Rugby Football Union in 1892 . Seventeen of the team 's 26 players went on to play provincially in New Zealand , and two , Thomas Ellison and David Gage , subsequently captained the New Zealand national rugby team . 


 = = Background = = 


 The idea for assembling a team of Māori footballers to tour Britain was conceived by Joseph Warbrick , a rugby player who had toured with the first New Zealand national team in 1884 . He initially proposed a team of Māori or part @-@ Māori to play the touring British side in 1888 ; this developed into a venture to have a Māori team tour Britain if a preliminary tour of New Zealand were successful . Hearing of Warbrick 's plans , civil servant Thomas Eyton contacted him to offer help managing the tour , which Warbrick accepted . When James Scott , a publican , subsequently joined the partnership , the three men decided that Warbrick would be the team 's captain , Scott its manager and Eyton its promoter . 

 Warbrick started assembling a team for the tour in early 1888 . He had difficulties assembling a squad due to player availability , and failed to secure the talented Jack Taiaroa due to his university commitments . Some Māori players who initially agreed to play later pulled out when the eligibility criteria were relaxed to allow squad members who were only part @-@ Māori . Twenty Māori or part @-@ Māori players joined the squad ; five Pākehā ( white New Zealand ) players were added after the team lost to Auckland . Due to the inclusion of these Pākehā players the team was renamed from the " New Zealand Maori " to the " New Zealand Native Football Representatives " . The final squad comprised 26 players ( including Warbrick ) ; of these at least five were full @-@ blooded Māori , while fourteen had a Māori mother and a Pākehā father . The parentage of some of the players is unknown . 

 The team toured New Zealand before departing overseas , playing against Hawke 's Bay , Auckland , Nelson , Wellington , Canterbury , South Canterbury , and Otago . The first game was contested against Hawke 's Bay in Napier on 23 June 1888 . They played nine games in their preliminary tour of New Zealand , and won seven of them . Their last New Zealand match before departure , against Otago played in Dunedin on 31 July 1888 , was won by one try to nil . 

 The team sailed for Australia from Dunedin , leaving on 1 August 1888 . In Melbourne , Scott recruited Jack Lawlor to train the players in Victorian Rules football in Britain as preparation for possible Victorian Rules matches on their return to Australia . The team played two rugby matches against the Melbourne Rugby Union team , winning the first and drawing the second , before continuing to Britain via Suez . They arrived in London on 27 September 1888 . 


 = = Arrival in England and early matches = = 


 The team were met in Britain by local rugby administrators , including an official of England 's Rugby Football Union ( RFU ) . The first match of the tour was against Surrey , where the team became the first New Zealand side to perform a haka , and also the first to wear an all black uniform . That the team was predominantly Māori provoked curiosity from the British press – at the time , most Britons had not seen non @-@ white people – but there was some surprise that the team were not as " Māori " as had been expected . " They are not unlike Europeans , " a Scottish reporter wrote in November 1888 ; " that is their resemblance is great when one remembers that they were a savage tribe no further back than a generation " . The Surrey match , which was refereed by the RFU secretary George Rowland Hill , was won 4 – 1 by the Natives after they scored two tries . 

 The Natives next defeated both Northamptonshire and Kent , before defeats by Moseley and Burton @-@ on @-@ Trent . Both defeats were unexpected , and in the Moseley match , injuries played a part – the tourists played most of the match at least two men down , as replacements were then not allowed . The team recovered to win their next game , against Midlands Counties in Birmingham . Their next fixture was against Middlesex in a match not open to the public , and hosted by the Earl of Sheffield at Sheffield Park , Uckfield . The Middlesex side contained a number of international players , including Arthur Gould . Middlesex won easily , with the Natives play characterised by poor tackling . The final score was 9 – 0 , with three tries conceded by the New Zealanders . Prior to the match both sides had enjoyed lunch with wine – an indulgence the Natives were not used to . A report in the Auckland Star had this to say of the game : 

 The New Zealanders expected to meet a mere exhibition 15 of scratch players , whereas Mr Rowland Hill had carefully collected the best possible team available . Such " passing " as the Home men displayed the Maoris frankly admit they have never previously witnessed . Said McCausland whilst we were on the platform waiting for the London train , " I think they would have just beaten us , even if we had been in good form . " 

 Following the match against Middlesex , the team travelled to the north , where the strongest English rugby teams were based . Yorkshire and Lancashire dominated the county championship until many of their respective member clubs split from the RFU in 1895 over the issue of " broken time " payments . The New Zealanders lost to Hull 1 – 0 , defeated Dewsbury , then lost to Wakefield . After their first draw of the tour ( against Northumberland County ) they defeated Stockton @-@ on @-@ Tees and Tynemouth . Joe Warbrick appeared in the match against Tynemouth , but aggravated the foot injury that had kept him out of the side until that point . These victories were followed by a 13 – 4 defeat to Halifax on 10 November . The team then won seven matches in a row , including one against Hawick RFC , their only Scottish opposition of the tour . The last two matches that month were a loss to Swinton and a 9 – 0 victory over Liverpool and District . The team had played thirteen fixtures during November and won ten of them . By this point , the team was beset by injuries – of the fifteen players that played against Westmorland County on 24 November , five had injuries . The squad comprised only 26 players , and the tourists were often struggling to field a side . Nevertheless , their heavy schedule continued ; on 30 November 1888 they left for Dublin , where a match had been organised against the Ireland national team . 


 = = Ireland , further English matches , and Wales = = 


 The Ireland fixture was played at Lansdowne Road , Dublin , on 1 December 1888 . Both teams had a number of leading players out injured – the Irish were forced to make four changes to their original selection . Ireland led 3 – 0 at half @-@ time after scoring a converted try , but the Natives improved considerably in the second @-@ half , scoring four tries . Patrick Keogh scored the first two tries , and his play was praised by the local press . The third try scored was by Thomas Ellison after a counter @-@ attack by George Williams . The try was not converted , but the strong finish from the New Zealanders gave the visitors a 13 – 4 victory . The Irish press were surprised by the loss and strongly criticised their team , but Ireland did go on to defeat Wales two tries to nil in the 1889 Home Nations Championship . Following their defeat of Ireland , the Natives played Trinity College and then North of Ireland . The match against Trinity College was drawn 4 – 4 , and despite Keogh not playing , the Native side played much better than their previous fixture . The team then travelled to Belfast , where they defeated North of Ireland 2 – 0 on 5 December ; scoring two tries to nil . 

 After returning to England , the Natives faced Lancashire in Manchester , where they lost 1 – 0 . Two days later they drew with Batley Bulldogs , despite their opposition scoring five tries . Their next match was against Yorkshire , who were one of the strongest counties in the country , and went on to win the inaugural County Championship that season . Yorkshire fielded a weakened team , and were subsequently defeated 10 – 6 by the Natives , who scored six tries . After a further two victories , the team travelled to Wales , where they lost 3 – 0 to Llanelli , before facing Wales on 22 December . 

 At the start of the match the home crowd were fairly hostile towards the Welsh team due to fans of both Swansea and Llanelli feeling slighted by the lack of selection of their players . Four teams dominated Welsh international selection at the time , and out of the 15 @-@ man team only William Towers and William Bowen of Swansea and Dan Griffiths of Llanelli had been selected . The match was played in Swansea , and the lack of local players may have contributed to a poor crowd , with gate receipts of only £ 120 recorded . The crowd 's hostility impacted on the players , and debutant Norman Biggs was " palpably nervous " at the start of the match . Biggs , aged 18 years and 49 days , became the youngest Welsh international player – a record he held until the debut of Tom Prydie in 2010 . Despite the heckles aimed primarily at Biggs , Charlie Arthur and George Thomas , the Welsh team produced an excellent effort , especially from the forwards . 

 Towers scored the first Welsh try , which was converted by Jim Webb . The Natives replied with a spirited run by Ellison , but he failed to break through the Welsh defence . The tourists trailed even further after George Thomas scored a breakaway try frrm the half @-@ way line , which went some way to silence the heckles from the crowd . Webb , playing in out of position at full @-@ back , missed the conversion and then failed at a long distance goal from a mark . The Natives continued to push , with Elliot coming within five @-@ yards of the try line , and when Ellison did manage to cross the line he was carried back into the 25 @-@ yard line before he could touch down . In the second half Wales continued to push their advantage when Alexander Bland dribbled the ball into the Natives ' 25 ; this was collected by Sydney Nicholls , who managed to get the ball across the try line , allowing Jim Hannan to score . Warbrick for the Natives and Stadden for Wales both subsequently came close to scoring tries , but there were no further scores in the game . 

 The match was also of historical importance because of the Welsh tactics employed . In the 1886 Home Nations Championship Wales had trialled the four three @-@ quarter system , wherein the team would play with eight forwards rather than nine , and instead employ an extra centre three @-@ quarter . The system was deemed a failure and was particularly unpopular with star Welsh player Arthur Gould , whose formidable ability as a back allowed his club team Newport to retain the additional forward . With Gould working in the West Indies , Wales again tried the four three @-@ quarter system against the Natives , and its success saw the team permanently adopt the system . Within six years the other three Home Countries had adopted four three @-@ quarter style of play . 

 Before they left Wales , the Natives played Swansea and two other local clubs , Newport , and Cardiff . They defeated Swansea for their first win in Wales , and followed this up with a victory over Newport in front of 8 @,@ 000 spectators . They finished their Welsh matches , and the year , with a 4 – 1 loss to Cardiff in front of a partisan crowd . 


 = = Return to England = = 


 The side entered 1889 having played 36 matches for 22 wins and three draws . The Natives ' play had improved throughout November and December following poorer form in their October matches ; positive press reports reflected this improvement . The team would go on to play a further 17 matches before their 16 February international against England . January started with a 4 – 1 loss to Bradford , during which 25 police officers were required to keep many of the 12 @,@ 000 spectators , many of them non @-@ paying , in order . This was followed by victories over Leeds Parish Church , Kirkstall , Brighouse Rangers , and Huddersfield . Following further matches against Stockport , Castleford , and Warrington , where the team drew , lost , then won , the side faced Yorkshire for a second time . 

 Yorkshire had been criticised in the press for fielding a weakened line @-@ up against the Natives when the sides first met in December . After the unexpected loss , Yorkshire were determined to make amends and a strong side was selected for the county , including Fred Bonsor , Richard Lockwood and John Willie Sutcliffe , all of whom would appear for England against the Natives later that season . Described as " knocked about " and " stale " , the Natives struggled to compete against such strong opposition , and Yorkshire scored three converted tries before a try to Ellison left the scores at 9 – 1 at half @-@ time . The second @-@ half was little better for the Natives ; they conceded a further two tries as well as a drop @-@ goal . The second of these tries was scored by Lockwood after he ran the ball from his own half . Ellison scored a converted try late in the match , but this didn 't prevent the Natives suffering their largest defeat of the tour : 16 – 4 to the Yorkshiremen . Ellison later described the match as " without a murmur , the biggest beating we received in our whole tour " . 

 After a victory over Spen Valley District , the team travelled west to play Somersetshire , Devonshire , Taunton , and Gloucestershire , and won all five games . The victory over Somerset was the New Zealanders ' largest of the tour ; they scored nine tries in a 17 – 4 victory . Half @-@ back Keogh played outstandingly for the Natives , while the entire side demonstrated superior passing and combination to their opposition . Devonshire and Tauton suffered heavy defeats by the New Zealanders , before a strong Gloucestershire side was dismissed . After defeating Midland Counties , the Natives returned to London . 

 The team had two further matches before their international against England . The first was against one of the strongest clubs in England , Blackheath . Andrew Stoddart , who had toured New Zealand and Australia with the 1888 British Isles side , played for the club in their 9 – 3 defeat to the Natives . The New Zealanders won having scored four tries , including two by Keogh . Their next opposition was a United Services side mainly comprising Royal Navy players . The Natives were again victorious , this time 10 – 0 . The match against Oxford University was postponed due to heavy frost , and so the team had a seven @-@ day break from playing – their longest of the tour . 


 = = England international = = 


 The match against England was causing the Natives ' players and management problems before it had even begun . The team manager , Scott , was in dispute with the RFU over where the match should be played – the RFU were adamant that the match should take place at Blackheath 's ground , but Scott wanted the game to proceed at The Oval , where a larger crowd , and therefore higher gate receipts , could be secured . The strictly amateur RFU establishment were already suspicious of the profit @-@ making motives of the Natives , and were unwilling to yield on the selection of venue . The RFU was also in dispute with the other Home Unions over the formation of the International Rugby Football Board ( IRFB ) . Following a disputed try in an England – Scotland international match in 1888 , the Scottish authorities had pushed for the establishment of an international body to oversee the game , but the RFU insisted that they would only join if they held a deciding vote , arguing that they deserved this as they were , they asserted , the senior body , and had the most member clubs . Ireland , Wales and Scotland consequently refused to play against England until 1891 , when , following arbitration , the RFU relented and joined the IRFB . The absence of international matches was a factor in England agreeing to face the Natives on 16 February 1889 . 

 The line @-@ ups selected for the 16 February match were both strong , and close to full strength . Though 12 of the England side had not played internationally before , all were experienced at domestic level . The match was refereed by Rowland Hill , who had also officiated the Natives ' first match in Britain , against Surrey . The opening of the first half was a scoreless affair , with much tackling and scrummaging on the heavy ground . Later in the half England scored two tries through Harry Bedford , but both were disputed by the Natives , who claimed that one of their players had grounded the ball in @-@ goal . England took the two @-@ try advantage into the second half . 

 Early in the second half a third disputed try was scored by the English . The try and its aftermath caused controversy and a rift between the Natives and the RFU . Ellison attempted to tackle the English player Stoddart , and in the process ripped his shorts off . The Natives quickly formed a circle around Stoddart to allow him to replace his clothing without being seen . While this was happening one of the English players , Frank Evershed , picked up the ball and scored a try . The New Zealanders protested , believing that play had stopped after claiming Stoddart had called " dead ball " – but Hill awarded the try , prompting three of the Native players , Dick Taiaroa , Williams , and Sherry Wynyard , to leave the field in protest . The aggrieved players were eventually persuaded to return , but not before Hill had restarted play . Ellison was very critical of Hill , particularly because he was also Secretary of the RFU . Ellison wrote after the tour that " gross as these errors were , they were insignificant when compared with another that Mr Hill committed at the outset of the game , viz , refereeing at all in that game " . The disputed try was followed by a final try for the English , who ultimately won 7 – 0 . 

 The RFU , at Hill 's instigation , promptly demanded an apology from the Natives ' captain of the day , Edward McCausland , who had led the team as Joe Warbrick was injured . The English authorities of the time believed that the decision of a referee was above question , and that protesting a decision as the New Zealanders had done was unsportsmanlike . The RFU threatened to bar any of their affiliated players – in other words , the entire rugby playing population of England – from facing the Natives if they did not apologise . McCausland swiftly sent an apology by telegram , but this was deemed inadequate ; he therefore sent another , four days after the game : 

 The London establishment that governed the game were disturbed by the New Zealanders ' approach to the game ; reports of rough and over @-@ aggressive play by the Natives had steadily increased in frequency since their arrival in Britain . In the north of England , criticism of the visitors ' sportsmanship was rarer ; the tourists were accepted as playing the game in the same spirit as their local opponents , which in the north was a more working class sport than in the south . Some of the Natives , including Joe Warbrick , accused the RFU and the English press of hypocrisy , claiming that they were quick to criticise the New Zealanders for rough play , yet tolerant of similar behaviour from their own players . 


 = = Later matches and departure from England = = 


 The Natives remained in London following the England international . They defeated London Welsh on 18 February , before losing first to Cambridge , then Oxford University . From there they travelled north and won two matches before losing to Leigh . After a win over Runcorn , there was a defeat to Oldham , played on a ground Eyton said was so frozen it was dangerous . After reversing their previous loss to Halifax with a 6 – 0 win , the Natives suffered a loss to Barrow and District on 7 March . The New Zealanders then had a run of seven straight wins before a 1 – 1 draw with Hull . Widnes were then defeated for the second time in two weeks in the tourists ' last match in northern England . 

 The team struggled to find an opponent for their final match in Britain . They eventually played Southern Counties , and beat them 3 – 1 . This was their 74th match in the British Isles and their 49th victory . The authorities and press in London continued to view the team negatively , and the Natives boarded ship without a formal farewell . This perceived affront from the RFU provoked some criticism from the press outside London , as well as from the team manager Scott , who felt that with the team 's official apology after the England match , the controversy should have put to rest . 


 = = Australia = = 


 The majority of the Natives left Plymouth on 29 March ( Eyton and Pie Wynyard followed a week later ) . They arrived in Melbourne in May , where the team played mostly Victorian Rules football , hoping to make more money that way . Although the side had employed Jack Lawlor to coach them in Victorian Rules during their tour of the British Isles , the heavy schedule and high injury count had left little time and energy for such training . As a result , the Victorian Rules matches were a failure ; the players ' unfamiliarity with the rules , combined with the fact that most of the Natives were rugby forwards ( and therefore less suited to the more open Victorian Rules ) , ensured that they failed to perform well on the field and struggled to attract large crowds . The side played nine Victorian Rules matches in total , including one in New South Wales , but won only three of them , all against relatively weak opposition . 

 The side 's success in their rugby matches contrasted to their failure in Victorian Rules – the New Zealanders played three rugby matches while in Victoria : against Melbourne , a Navy selection , and Victoria . The matches were all won , with their game against Victoria a 19 – 0 victory . After this they left for Sydney for further rugby matches , and defeated New South Wales 12 – 9 . After two further victories , the side again faced New South Wales , and won the match 16 – 12 . Another two victories followed , before the team played their only association football matches of the tour – both defeats . 

 The team travelled north to Queensland , where , as in New South Wales , rugby was the dominant code of football . Consequently , the team exclusively played rugby while in the region . The Natives faced Queensland at the Association Ground in Brisbane . The 8000 spectators witnessed the New Zealanders overwhelm the Queenslanders to win 22 – 0 ; the Natives did not exert themselves in the win , and the score did not reflect their dominance . After a further two matches , against Toowoomba and Ipswich ( both of whom were comfortably defeated ) , the team returned to Brisbane for a rematch with Queensland . In contrast to their first meeting , the first @-@ half was a close affair , and the two sides were tied at the conclusion of the half . Billy Warbrick suffered a kick to the head , and had to retire early in the second @-@ half . Following the loss of Warbrick , the play of the Natives improved and they recovered to win 11 – 7 . Not long after the game concluded rumours circulated that some of the players had been offered ₤ 50 by bookmakers to throw the game . Eyton later said : 

 It was on the occasion of this match that four of our players were thought , in racing parlance , to be playing " stiff " , and that they had been got by some bookies ; at all events , when accused of it at half @-@ time and cautioned , they played a different game in the second half . 

 The response from the team 's management was to suspend four players . The team travelled to Toowoomba , where they defeated the locals 19 – 0 . The Natives included a replacement player for only the second time , Charles Speakman , after the suspensions reduced the playing strength of the side . The team then travelled back to New Zealand , and arrived in Invercargill on 5 August . 


 = = Return to New Zealand = = 


 Two days after their return , the Natives faced Southland , who they defeated 5 – 1 in front of a crowd of 2 @,@ 000 . The side suffered further injury , to Harry Lee , and recruited Southlander W. Hirst for their match against Mataura District on 8 August . Despite playing the match two players down , the Natives comfortably defeated Mataura 16 – 3 . Following the side 's return to New Zealand , the Otago Rugby Football Union demanded that the team 's management explain the accusations levelled at them in Queensland . Eyton responded by insisting that the players had only been suspended while an investigation was conducted , and that the management was confident no wrongdoing had occurred . The Northern Rugby Union ( since renamed Queensland Rugby Union ) summarised the incident and aftermath in the 1889 Queensland Rugby Union Annual : 

 ... it was apparent to a judge of the game that something was wrong with the Maori , as they were not showing their usual dash and combination . Four members of the team were suspended , a charge being made against them of attempting the sell the match . The matter was bought before the Otago Union , who passed the following resolution : That , having heard all available evidence regarding the charges against certain members of the Native Team , and having received an explicit denial of charges from the accused members and a satisfactory explanation from the management , we are of opinion that there are no facts before us justifying the allegations ... 

 It is unlikely , given the attitude of the Otago Rugby Union to the Natives before their departure , that they would have dismissed the allegations if incriminating evidence had existed . The side was back to full strength following the return of their suspended players when the side faced Otago in Dunedin . The Natives outscored their opponents five tries to two , and won 11 – 8 . The side 's star player and half @-@ back , Keogh , stayed in Dunedin when the team departed for Christchurch . The side faced Hawke 's Bay , who were touring , in Christchurch , and handily defeated them 13 – 2 . The Natives ' play was praised by The Press : " ... the wearers of the black passed with remarkable accuracy and quickness between their legs , over their shoulders , under their arms and with their feet " . The side then faced Canterbury on 17 August , who they thrashed 15 – 0 . The report published in The Press said of the Natives ' performance : 

 The play showed on Saturday afternoon was a fine exhibition of what several months of combination and practice will do ... it must be admitted they were far and away too good for our local men . In the loose , in the scrum , dribbling , passing , collaring , or running they were very much indeed Canterbury 's superior . Such runs as were made by Warbrick at full back , by Madigan , Gage , and W. Wynyard , the passing of H. Wynyard , F. Warbrick , and all the backs as well as several forwards , the rushes of Alf Warbrick , Maynard , Taare , Taiaroa , and Rene , and the dodging and fending powers of nearly every one , nonplussed their opponents ... 

 The side left Christchurch and travelled north where they played Wairarapa in Masterton . The match was won 10 – 8 , and the next day they faced Wellington , who they also defeated . The fixture against Wellington was nearly abandoned because Scott and the Wellington Rugby Union could not agree on a venue ; the match went ahead only when the Wellington officials agreed to cede the Natives all profit from the match . After this the Natives travelled to Auckland where they played their last match , against the province on 24 August . The match was lost 7 – 2 after each team scored two tries each , but the Aucklanders kicked a drop @-@ goal and a conversion . The loss ended a remarkable run of matches – the Natives had a 31 @-@ game unbeaten streak in rugby matches that started with their victory over Widnes on 9 March ; the side won 30 , and drew one match between the defeats . 


 = = Impact and legacy = = 


 The tour had a significant impact on the development of rugby within New Zealand . It was the first tour of the British Isles by a team from the Southern Hemisphere , and the longest in the history of the sport . By the time the Natives returned to New Zealand , they had developed into a side superior to any in the country , and introduced a number of tactical innovations . Seventeen of the 26 players went on to play provincially in New Zealand , and two , Ellison and David Gage , subsequently captained New Zealand . 

 The tour also prompted the eventual formation of the New Zealand Rugby Football Union ( NZRFU , later renamed New Zealand Rugby Union ) in 1892 ; one reason for its formation was to ensure greater control over any future touring New Zealand sides . The NZRFU sent an officially sanctioned New Zealand team , captained by Ellison , to tour Australia in 1893 . The Natives are also the forefathers of the Māori All Blacks , a representative team organised by the NZRFU , that first played in 1910 . The Native team , along with Joe Warbrick , was inducted into the IRB Hall of Fame in 2008 – the seventh inductee . 


 = = Squad = = 


 The squad consisted of 26 players . The exact names of several of the players is unknown . The number of matches played is a minimum number only – the line @-@ ups for a number of matches in Britain and Australia are either incomplete or unknown . 


 = = Matches played = = 



 = = = Overall = = = 



 = = = Internationals = = = 



 = = = = Ireland = = = = 


 Ireland : T Edwards , DC Woods , A Walpole , MJ Bulger , J Stevenson , RG Warren capt . , HW Andrews , EG Forrest , JH O 'Conor , JG Moffatt , JN Lytle , J Waites , R Stevenson , JC Jameson , FO Stoker 

 New Zealand Natives : William Warbrick , David Gage , Edward McCausland , Frederick Warbrick , Patrick Keogh , Tabby Wynyard , Charles Madigan , William Elliot , George Williams , Dick Taiaroa , Thomas Ellison , W Anderson , Joe Warbrick , Richard Maynard , Charles Goldsmith 


 = = = = Wales = = = = 


 Wales : Jim Webb ( Newport ) , George Thomas ( Newport ) , Dickie Garrett ( Penarth ) , Charlie Arthur ( Cardiff ) , Norman Biggs ( Cardiff ) , Charlie Thomas ( Newport ) , William Stadden ( Cardiff ) , Frank Hill ( Cardiff ) capt . , Alexander Bland ( Cardiff ) , Sydney Nicholls ( Cardiff ) , Jim Hannan ( Newport ) , Theo Harding ( Newport ) , William Towers ( Swansea ) , William Bowen ( Swansea ) , Dan Griffiths , ( Llanelli ) 

 New Zealand Natives : William Warbrick , Edward McCausland , William Thomas Wynyard , David Gage , William Elliot , Frederick Warbrick , Patrick Keogh , George Wynyard , Alexander Webster , Teo Rene , George Williams , Arthur Warbrick , David Stewart , Wi Karauria , Thomas Ellison 


 = = = = England = = = = 


 England : Arthur " Artie " V. Royle , John William " J.W. " Sutcliffe , Andrew Stoddart , Richard " Dicky " Evison Lockwood , William Martin Scott , Fernand " Fred " Bonsor capt . , Frank Evershed , Donald " Don " Jowett , Charles Anderton , Harry James Wilkinson , Harry Bedford , William Yiend , John W. Cave , Frederick Lowrie , Arthur Robinson 

 New Zealand Natives : William Warbrick , Edward McCausland , Tabby Wynyard , Charles Madigan , William Elliot , David Gage , Patrick Keogh , George Wynyard , Teo Rene , Harry Lee , Thomas Ellison , George Williams , W Anderson , Dick Taiaroa , Richard Maynard 



 = Éva Gauthier = 


 Éva Gauthier ( September 20 , 1885 – December 20 , 1958 ) was a Canadian @-@ American mezzo @-@ soprano and voice teacher . She performed and popularised songs by contemporary composers throughout her career and sang in the American premieres of several works by Erik Satie , Maurice Ravel and Igor Stravinsky , including the title role in the latter 's Perséphone . 

 The niece of Lady Laurier and Sir Wilfrid Laurier , who also were her patrons , she initially trained and performed in Europe . She then travelled to Java and for four years immersed herself in its native music , which she introduced to North American audiences on her return . She retired from performing in 1937 , and opened a voice studio in New York , where she became a founding member of the American Guild of Musical Artists and served on its board of governors . Gauthier was praised for the many qualities her singing brought to music . The citation from the Campion Society of San Francisco , which she received in 1949 , said : " ... her rare open @-@ mindedness and unorthodox enthusiasm having been initially responsible for the recognition of many vital and important modern composers " 


 = = Singing career = = 


 Born in Ottawa , Ontario , Gauthier received musical lessons as a child , in harmony , voice , and piano . The custom of the time dictated that North American musicians travel to Europe for training if they desired a reputable professional career , and in July 1902 , at the age of seventeen , Gauthier set out for Europe , financed by her aunt and uncle , Lady Zoé Laurier and Sir Wilfrid Laurier . 


 = = = Training in Europe = = = 


 Gauthier travelled to France , where she received private voice lessons from Auguste @-@ Jean Dubulle of the Paris Conservatory . Nodules on her vocal cords were problematic , but they were removed surgically . She later began training under Jacques Bouhy , whom she would later credit for her vocal technique . In 1906 , Gauthier was retained by fellow Canadian singer Emma Albani to accompany her on a tour of England and her Canadian farewell tour . Albani provided a degree of mentorship to Gauthier during the 30 week tour of Canada . 

 Lord Strathcona awarded Gauthier a scholarship in 1906 that allowed her to return to Europe and continue her vocal studies . She returned there and continued both to study and give performances . Her first operatic performance came in 1909 in Pavia , Italy as Micaëla in Bizet 's Carmen . She landed a second operatic role as Mallika in Delibes ' Lakmé , which was being performed by the London Covent Garden opera company . The opera opened in June 1910 . Supposedly , Luisa Tetrazzini , the prima donna soprano of the company , feared that Gauthier 's voice would outshine her own , and demanded that Gauthier be removed from the opera . The company 's director acquiesced to Tetrazzini 's demands , informing Gauthier on opening night that she would not be performing . Gauthier reacted badly , and quit opera entirely . 


 = = = Move to Java = = = 


 Disappointed by her blocked entry into the operatic scene , Gauthier departed Europe and travelled to Java . There , she met a Dutch importer and plantation manager named Frans Knoote . Gauthier and Knoote married on May 22 , 1911 . Gauthier studied the music of Java , and began to include this in her repertoire . Her accompanying pianist was Paul Seelig , who had previously been the conductor for the Kraton of Surakarta , which afforded Gauthier a number of opportunities . On permission of the Javanese court , she studied the gamelan , probably being the first western woman with a classical music education to be afforded this opportunity . While living in Java , Gauthier travelled extensively , giving performances in China , Japan , Singapore , Malaya , Australia , and New Zealand . She remained in Java for four years , but with the outbreak of World War I she decided to travel back to North America , arriving in New York City in the fall of 1915 . 


 = = = Return to North America = = = 


 Arriving in New York , Gauthier struggled to find a niche in an already crowded music scene . She put on a performance in Vaudeville entitled Songmotion , which combined Javan music with dancers . New York was already home to many North American and European musical performers , so Gauthier focused on her Javan musical repertoire , which she combined with knowledge and skill in modernist western singing . Gauthier began giving annual recitals at Aeolian Hall , and in November 1917 her performance there caught the eye of many leading composers . She developed her own reputation quickly , known as a " ... sensitive purveyor of interesting , untried songs " . She gave renditions of three songs by Maurice Ravel . Her performance then also included American premieres of Stravinsky 's Three Japanese Lyrics and Griffes ' Five Poems of Ancient China and Japan . The performance was a great success , and she began to receive invitations to perform premieres of songs by contemporary composers . Stravinsky arranged to have Gauthier to premiere all of his vocal pieces . 

 Gauthier travelled to Paris in 1920 at the behest of the Music League of America . Sent there to arrange a tour of North America by Maurice Ravel , she struck up a friendship and professional correspondence not only with him , but also with Erik Satie and Les six . This led to more music being sent to her by various composers that she would premiere in concert . She accepted and premiered almost all works sent to her , the only exception being a refusal to perform Pierrot Lunaire by Arnold Schoenberg . Through this , Gauthier performed large amounts of contemporary French music across the United States . She also included American music in all of her concerts . Gauthier toured America frequently and returned to Europe in 1922 , and again in 1923 . She began to explore Jazz music in concert as well , earning her negative reviews by many musical critics . 

 Her 1923 annual performance at Aeolian Hall entitled " Recital of Ancient and Modern Music for Voice " became a historic occasion when she presented the works of George Gershwin , the first time his works were performed by a classical singer in concert . The first half of the programme presented works considered serious music at the time . She performed both classical works by Vincenzo Bellini and Henry Purcell , mixing them with modernist and neoclassical works by Arnold Schoenberg , Darius Milhaud , Béla Bartók , and Paul Hindemith . The second half of her performance would upset the musical establishment , however . She opened with Alexander 's Ragtime Band by Irving Berlin , then performed works by Jerome Kern and Walter Donaldson , and finally finished with three works by George Gershwin : I 'll Build a Stairway to Paradise , Innocent Ingénue Baby , and Swanee . Gershwin played the piano for these pieces . Important figures in the audience included Ernestine Schumann @-@ Heink , Virgil Thomson , and Paul Whiteman . Although some musical critics panned her decision to include Jazz music , the performance was overall a huge success , and provoked serious discussion among conservative audiences whether jazz music could be considered serious art . 

 Gauthier continued to present music that was thought poorly of by conservative audiences . On some occasions , such as her performances of Gershwin in New York in 1923 and 1925 , as well as in London in 1925 , this was quite successful . A critic in Vienna welcomed her musical selection as a reprieve from the usual fare of classical performances - Schubert , Brahms , Wolf , Richard Strauss - while praising her skill with more classical choices . Other performances suffered – she was booed while performing works by Heitor Villa @-@ Lobos at the Festival of the International Society of Contemporary Music in Venice . She became a celebrity , and continued giving performances across the United States , Europe , and her native Canada . On the sixtieth anniversary of Canadian Confederation in 1927 , she gave a performance in Ottawa which was the first transcontinental radio broadcast in Canada . Although she toured Canada from time to time , and attended performances of Canadian music in New York , she held a negative opinion of Canada 's treatment of native musicians , saying " Canadians . . . would rather listen to foreigners than their own people . " 


 = = = Retirement from the stage = = = 


 Illness forced Gauthier to halt giving performances in the late 1920s , but she would return to the stage in 1931 , giving a concert in Havana , Cuba . As time passed she began to engage more and more in teaching , and less and less in stage performing . Her income from teaching was substantially better than from touring . She retired from performing entirely in 1937 , and opened a music studio in New York . There she became a founding member of the American Guild of Musical Artists , serving on its board of governors . She died on December 20 , 1958 . 


 = = Views of critics and audiences = = 


 Gauthier was a controversial musician in her time . Her choice of music for performance was often condemned , and often praised . The appropriateness of jazz music for a classically trained singer , combined with the performances taking place in concert halls lead some critics to cheer her for promoting otherwise overlooked music , and others to condemn her for taking lowbrow music into a highbrow venue . 

 A May 1 , 1917 review by the New York Times praised her natural talent , with some reservations about the unpolished quality of her voice . Her ability to capture the spirit of the pieces was also praised : " ... her singing of songs by Frenchmen of today and the day before yesterday gave pleasure because of her understanding of them and the appropriate expression which she found for them . " 

 A November 12 , 1923 Time review of her performance of historic Italian songs , as well as modern English , French , Austrian , German and American numbers focused on her choice to include selections of contemporary jazz music . The critic remarked " Her voice was much too good for jazz . " Here she was praised as a serious , scholarly artist whose performance was " ... neat and expressive . " The audience received the concert very enthusiastically . 

 Her performance in Fargo in 1923 resulted in a headline in the Fargo Forum the next day that was headed Eva Gauthier ’ s Program Sets Whole Town Buzzing : Many People Are of Two Minds Regarding Jazz Numbers – Some Reluctantly Admit That They Like Them – Others Keep Silent or Condemn Them . The review divides the audience and critics into various camps : those who openly enjoyed and applauded the performance ; those who openly disliked and condemned it ; those unsure how to react to a performance they liked but felt was inappropriate ; and those who liked the performance but would not show approval for fear of looking foolish or uncultured . 


 = = Archival materials = = 


 Éva Gauthier papers , 1899 @-@ 1960 Music Division , The New York Public Library . 



 = Battle of Sullivan 's Island = 


 The Battle of Sullivan 's Island or the Battle of Fort Sullivan was fought on June 28 , 1776 , during the American Revolutionary War . It took place near Charleston , South Carolina , during the first British attempt to capture the city from American rebels . It is also sometimes referred to as the First Siege of Charleston , owing to a more successful British siege in 1780 . 

 The British organized an expedition in early 1776 for operations in the rebellious southern colonies of North America . Delayed by logistical concerns and bad weather , the expedition reached the coast of North Carolina in May 1776 . Finding conditions unsuitable for their operations , General Henry Clinton and Admiral Sir Peter Parker decided instead to act against Charleston . Arriving there in early June , troops were landed on Long Island , near Sullivan 's Island where Colonel William Moultrie commanded a partially constructed fort , in preparation for a naval bombardment and land assault . General Charles Lee , commanding the southern Continental theater of the war , would provide supervision . 

 The land assault was frustrated when the channel between the two islands was found to be too deep to wade , and the American defenses prevented an amphibious landing . The naval bombardment had little effect due to the sandy soil and the spongy nature of the fort 's palmetto log construction . Careful fire by the defenders wrought significant damage on the British fleet , which withdrew after an entire day 's bombardment . The British withdrew their expedition force to New York , and did not return to South Carolina until 1780 . 


 = = Background = = 


 When the American Revolutionary War broke out in 1775 , the city of Charleston in the colony of South Carolina was a center of commerce in southern North America . The city 's citizens joined other colonists in opposing the British parliament 's attempts to tax them , and militia recruitment increased when word arrived of the April 1775 Battles of Lexington and Concord . Throughout 1775 and into 1776 , militia recruits arrived in the city from the colony 's backcountry , the city 's manufacturers and tradesmen began producing war materiel , and defensive fortifications began to take shape around the city . 


 = = = British operations = = = 


 British army forces in North America were primarily tied up with the Siege of Boston in 1775 . Seeking bases of operations where they had more control , the British planned an expedition to the southern colonies . Major General Henry Clinton , then in Boston , was to travel to Cape Fear , North Carolina , where he would join with largely Scottish Loyalists raised in the North Carolina backcountry , and a force of 2 @,@ 000 men from Ireland under the command of Major General Charles Cornwallis . 

 The plan was beset by difficulties from the start . The Irish expedition , originally supposed to depart at the beginning of December 1775 , was delayed by logistical difficulties , and its 2 @,@ 500 troops did not depart until February 13 , 1776 , escorted by 11 warships under the command of Admiral Sir Peter Parker . Clinton left Boston on January 20 with two companies of light infantry , and first stopped at New York City to confer with William Tryon , New York 's royal governor . Major General Charles Lee , sent by Major General George Washington to see to the defense of New York , coincidentally arrived there the same day as Clinton . New York was at that time extremely tense ; Patriot forces were beginning to disarm and evict Loyalists , and the British fleet anchored there was having difficulty acquiring provisions . Despite this , Clinton made no secret that his final target was in the south . Lee observed that this was " certainly a droll way of proceeding ; to communicate his full plan to the enemy is too novel to be credited . " This was not even the first notice of the expedition to the colonists ; a letter intercepted in December had already provided intelligence that the British were planning to go to the South . 

 Clinton arrived at Cape Fear on March 12 , expecting to find the European convoy already there . He met with the royal governors of North and South Carolina , Josiah Martin and William Campbell , and learned that the recruited Scottish Loyalists had been defeated at Moore 's Creek Bridge two weeks earlier . Clinton also received pleas for assistance from the royal governor of Georgia , James Wright , who had been arrested , and then escaped to a navy ship . 

 Parker 's fleet had an extremely difficult crossing . Battered by storms and high seas , the first ships of the fleet did not arrive at Cape Fear until April 18 , and Cornwallis did not arrive until May 3 . After several weeks there , in which the British troops raided Patriot properties , Clinton , Cornwallis and Parker concluded that Cape Fear was not a suitable base for further operations . Parker had sent out some ships on scouting expeditions up and down the coast , and reports on the partially finished condition of the Charleston defenses were sufficiently promising that the decision was made to go there . 


 = = = American defenses = = = 


 John Rutledge , recently elected president of the General Assembly that remained as the backbone of South Carolina 's revolutionary government , organized a defense force under the command of 46 @-@ year @-@ old Colonel William Moultrie , a former militiaman and Indian fighter . These forces comprised three infantry regiments , two rifle regiments , and a small artillery regiment ; they were augmented by three independent artillery companies , and the total force numbered about 2 @,@ 000 . These forces were further augmented by the arrival of Continental regiments from North Carolina and Virginia ( 1 @,@ 900 troops ) , as well as militia numbering 2 @,@ 700 from Charleston and the surrounding backcountry . 

 Moultrie saw Sullivan 's Island , a sandy spit of land at the entrance to Charleston Harbor extending north about 4 miles ( 6 @.@ 4 km ) long and a few hundred yards wide , as a place well suited to build a fort that could protect the entrance from intruding enemy warships . A large vessel sailing into Charleston first had to cross Charleston Bar , a series of submerged shoals lying about 8 miles ( 13 km ) southeast of the city , and then pass by the southern end of Sullivan 's Island as it entered the channel to the inner harbor . Later it would also have to pass the northern end of James Island , where Fort Johnson commanded the southeastern approach to the city . Moultrie and his 2nd South Carolina Regiment arrived on Sullivan 's Island in March 1776 , and began construction of a fortress to defend the island and the channel into Charleston Harbor . The construction moved slowly ; Captain Peter Horry of the Patriot naval detachment described the site as " an immense pen 500 feet long , and 16 feet wide , filled with sand to stop the shot " . The gun platforms were made of planks two inches thick and fastened with wooden spikes . 

 Congress had appointed General Lee to command the Continental Army troops in the southern colonies , and his movements by land shadowed those of Clinton 's fleet as it sailed south . Lee wrote from Wilmington on June 1 that the fleet had sailed , but that he did not know whether it was sailing for Virginia or South Carolina . He headed for Charleston , saying " [ I ] confess I know not whether I shall go to or from the enemy . " He arrived in Charleston shortly after the fleet anchored outside the harbor , and took command of the city 's defenses . He immediately ran into a problem : the South Carolina troops ( militia or the colonial regiments ) were not on the Continental line , and thus not formally under his authority . Some South Carolina troops resisted his instructions , and Rutledge had to intervene by proclaiming Lee in command of all South Carolina forces . 

 Square @-@ shaped Fort Sullivan consisted only of the completed seaward wall , with walls made from palmetto logs 20 feet ( 6 @.@ 1 m ) high and 16 feet ( 4 @.@ 9 m ) wide . The walls were filled with sand , and rose 10 feet ( 3 @.@ 0 m ) above the wooden platforms on which the artillery were mounted . A hastily erected palisade of thick planks helped guard the powder magazine and unfinished northern walls . An assortment of 31 cannon , ranging from 9- and 12 @-@ pounders to a few British 18 @-@ pounders and French 26 @-@ pounders , dotted the front and rear walls . General Lee , when he had seen its unfinished state , had recommended abandoning the fort , calling it a " slaughter pen " . President Rutledge refused , and specifically ordered Colonel Moultrie to " obey [ Lee ] in everything , except in leaving Fort Sullivan " . Moultrie 's delaying tactics so angered Lee that he decided on June 27 that he would replace Moultrie ; the battle began the next day before he could do so . Lee did make plans for an orderly retreat to Haddrell 's Point . 


 = = = British arrival = = = 


 The British fleet weighed anchor at Cape Fear on May 31 , and arrived outside Charleston Harbor the next day . Moultrie noticed a British scout boat apparently looking for possible landing points on nearby Long Island ( now known as the Isle of Palms ) , just a few hundred yards from Sullivan 's Island ; troops were consequently sent to occupy the northern end of Sullivan 's . By June 8 , most of the British fleet had crossed the bar and anchored in Five Fathom Hole , an anchorage between the bar and the harbor entrance . With the fort on Sullivan 's Island only half complete , Admiral Parker expressed confidence that his warships would easily breach its walls . Optimistically believing he would not even need Clinton 's land forces , he wrote to Clinton that after the fort 's guns were knocked out , he would " land seamen and marines ( which I have practiced for the purpose ) under the guns " and that they could " keep possession till you send as many troops as you think proper " . 

 The British fleet was composed of nine man @-@ of @-@ war ships : the flagship 50 @-@ gun Bristol , as well as the 50 @-@ gun Experiment and frigates Actaeon , Active , Solebay , Siren , Sphinx , Friendship and the bomb vessel Thunder , in total mounting nearly 300 cannon . The army forces in the expedition consisted of the 15th , 28th , 33rd , 37th , 54th , and 57th Regiments of Foot , and part of the 46th . On June 7 , Clinton issued a proclamation calling on the rebel colonists to lay down their arms . However , the inexperienced defenders fired on the boat sent to deliver it ( which was flying a truce flag ) , and it was not delivered until the next day . That same day , Clinton began landing 2 @,@ 200 troops on Long Island . The intent was that these troops would wade across the channel ( now known as Breach Inlet ) between Long and Sullivan 's , which the British believed to be sufficiently shallow to do so , while the fleet bombarded Fort Sullivan . 

 General Lee responded to the British landing with several actions . He began reinforcing positions on the mainland in case the British were intending to launch an attack directly on Charleston . He also attempted to build a bridge of boats to provide an avenue of retreat for the fort 's garrison , but this failed because there were not enough boats to bridge the roughly one mile ( 1 @.@ 6 km ) channel separating the island from Charleston ; the unwillingness of Moultrie and Rutledge to support the effort may also have played a role . The Americans also constructed an entrenchment at the northern end of Sullivan 's Island , which was manned by more than 750 men and three small cannons , and began to fortify a guard post at Haddrell 's Point on the mainland opposite Fort Sullivan . 

 General Clinton encountered the first major problem of the attack plan on June 17 . An attempt to wade the channel between the two islands established that part of the channel was at least shoulder @-@ deep , too deep for troops to cross even without the prospect of enemy opposition . He considered using boats to ferry the troops across , but the Americans , with timely advice from General Lee , adopted a strong defensive position that was virtually impossible to bombard from ships or the Long Island position . As a result , the British and American forces faced each other across the channel , engaging in occasional and largely inconsequential cannon fire at long range . Clinton reported that this meant that Admiral Parker would have " the glory of being defeated alone . " The attack was originally planned for June 24 , but bad weather and contrary wind conditions prompted Parker to call it off for several days . 


 = = Battle = = 


 On the morning of June 28 , Fort Sullivan was defended by Colonel Moultrie , commanding the 2nd South Carolina Regiment and a company of the 4th South Carolina Artillery , numbering 435 men . At around 9 : 00 am that morning , a British ship fired a signal gun indicating all was ready for the attack . Less than an hour later , nine warships had sailed into positions facing the fort . Thunder and Friendship anchored about 1 @.@ 5 miles ( 2 @.@ 4 km ) from the fort while Parker took Active , Bristol , Experiment and Solebay to a closer position about 400 yards ( 370 m ) from Sullivan 's Island , where they anchored facing broadside to the fort . Each of these ships began to fire upon the fort when it reached its position , and the defenders returned the fire . Although many of Thunder 's shots landed in or near the fort , they had little effect ; according to Moultrie , " We had a morass in the middle , that swallowed them up instantly , and those that fell in the sand in and about the fort , were immediately buried " . Thunder 's role in the action was also relatively short @-@ lived ; she had anchored too far away from the fort , and the overloading of her mortars with extra powder to increase their range eventually led to them breaking out of their mounts . Owing to shortage of gunpowder , Moultrie 's men were deliberate in the pace of their gunfire , and only a few officers actually aimed the cannons . They also fired in small volleys , four cannon at a time . One British observer wrote , " Their fire was surprisingly well served " and it was " slow , but decisive indeed ; they were very cool and took care not to fire except their guns were exceedingly well directed . " 

 General Clinton began movements to cross over to the northern end of Sullivan 's Island . Assisted by two sloops of war , the flotilla of longboats carrying his troops came under fire from Colonel William Thomson 's defenses . Facing a withering barrage of grape shot and rifle fire , Clinton abandoned the attempt . 

 Around noon the frigates Sphinx , Syren , and Actaeon were sent on a roundabout route , avoiding some shoals , to take a position from which they could enfilade the fort 's main firing platform and also cover one of the main escape routes from the fort . However , all three ships grounded on an uncharted sandbar , and the riggings of Actaeon and Sphinx became entangled in the process . The British managed to refloat Sphinx and Syren , but Acteon remained grounded , having moved too far onto the submerged sandbar . Consequently , none of these ships reached its intended position , a piece of good fortune not lost on Colonel Moultrie : " Had these three ships effected their purpose , they would have enfiladed us in such a manner , as to have driven us from our guns . " 

 At the fort , Moultrie ordered his men to concentrate their fire on the two large man @-@ of @-@ war ships , Bristol and Experiment , which took hit after hit from the fort 's guns . Chain shot fired at Bristol eventually destroyed much of her rigging and severely damaged both the main- and mizzenmasts . One round hit her quarterdeck , slightly wounding Parker in the knee and thigh . The shot also tore off part of his britches , leaving his backside exposed . By mid @-@ afternoon , the defenders were running out of gunpowder , and their fire was briefly suspended . However , Lee sent more ammunition and gunpowder over from the mainland , and the defenders resumed firing at the British ships ; Lee even briefly visited the fort late in the day , telling Colonel Moultrie , " I see you are doing very well here , you have no occasion for me , I will go up to the town again . " Admiral Parker eventually sought to destroy the fort 's walls with persistent broadside cannonades . This strategy failed due to the spongy nature of the palmetto wood used in its constructions ; the structure would quiver , and it absorbed the cannonballs rather than splintering . The exchange continued until around 9 : 00 pm , when darkness forced a cessation of hostilities , and the fleet finally withdrew out of range . 

 At one point during the battle , the flag Moultrie had designed and raised over the fort was shot down . Sergeant William Jasper reportedly ran to the battlement and raised the flag again , holding it up and rallying the troops until a flag stand could be provided . He was credited by Moultrie with reviving the troops ' spirits , and later given commendations for bravery . A painting of this event ( pictured above ) depicts Jasper 's actions . 

 Counting casualties , Parker reported 40 sailors killed and 71 wounded aboard Bristol , which was hit more than 70 times with much damage to the hull , yards , and rigging . Experiment was also badly damaged with 23 sailors killed and 56 wounded . Active and Solebay reported 15 casualties each . The Americans reported their casualties at only 12 killed and 25 wounded . The following morning , the British , unable to drag the grounded Acteon off the sandbar , set fire to the ship to prevent her from falling into enemy hands . Patriots in small boats sailed out to the burning ship , fired some of its cannons at the British ships , took what stores and loot they could , and retreated shortly before the ship 's powder magazine exploded . 


 = = Aftermath = = 


 The British did not attempt to take the fort again . Within days of the battle , Charlestonians learned of the signing of the Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia . The British troops were reembarked on their transports , and on July 21 the British fleet withdrew northward to help the main British army in its campaign against New York City . To add insult to injury , one of the British transports grounded off Long Island and was captured by Patriot forces . 

 The British did not return to Charleston until 1780 , when General Clinton successfully besieged the city and captured an entire army . Until the South again became a focus of the war in late 1778 , its states provided military supplies to the northern war effort and produced trade goods that brought in valuable hard currency to fund the war effort . 

 Admiral Parker and General Clinton engaged in a war of words after the battle , each seeking to cast the blame on the other for the expedition 's failures . Although Clinton was not blamed by the government , popular opinion held him responsible , and Parker was lauded for his personal bravery . 


 = = Legacy = = 


 Fort Sullivan was renamed Fort Moultrie shortly after the battle to honor Colonel William Moultrie for his successful defense of the fort and the city of Charleston . Extensively modified in the years after the battle , it was supplanted by Fort Sumter as the principal defense of Charleston prior to the outbreak of the American Civil War . In 1876 , to celebrate the centennial , companies from Savannah , Augusta , Macon , Columbia , New York and Boston were invited to Charleston . The site was turned over to the National Park Service in 1960 , and is now part of Fort Sumter National Monument . 

 A small monument to the Battle of Sullivan 's Island has been placed at the northeastern tip of the island , overlooking the inlet where General Clinton 's soldiers had hoped to cross . The monument includes historical markers describing the events surrounding the engagement . 

 One iconic emblem of the battle was the flag designed by Colonel Moultrie . Commissioned by the colonial government , he designed a blue flag with a white crescent in the top left corner , which was flown at the fort during the battle . Despite being shot down during the siege , it was seen as a symbol of this successful defense ( and famously raised during victory ) . It came to be known as the Moultrie flag or Liberty Flag . When Charleston ( lost to the British in the 1780 siege ) was reclaimed by American forces at the end of the war , the flag was returned to the city by General Nathanael Greene . 



 = Hu Zhengyan = 


 Hu Zhengyan ( Chinese : 胡正言 ; c . 1584 – 1674 ) was a Chinese artist , printmaker and publisher . He worked in calligraphy , traditional Chinese painting , and seal @-@ carving , but was primarily a publisher , producing academic texts as well as records of his own work . 

 Hu lived in Nanjing during the transition from the Ming dynasty to the Qing dynasty . A Ming loyalist , he was offered a position at the rump court of the Hongguang Emperor , but declined the post , and never held anything more than minor political office . He did , however , design the Hongguang Emperor 's personal seal , and his loyalty to the dynasty was such that he largely retired from society after the emperor 's capture and death in 1645 . He owned and operated an academic publishing house called the Ten Bamboo Studio , in which he practised various multi @-@ colour printing and embossing techniques , and he employed several members of his family in this enterprise . Hu 's work at the Ten Bamboo Studio pioneered new techniques in colour printmaking , leading to delicate gradations of colour which were not previously achievable in this art form . 

 Hu is best known for his manual of painting entitled The Ten Bamboo Studio Manual of Painting and Calligraphy , an artist 's primer which remained in print for around 200 years . His studio also published seal catalogues , academic and medical texts , books on poetry , and decorative writing papers . Many of these were edited and prefaced by Hu and his brothers . 


 = = Biography = = 


 Hu was born in Xiuning County , Anhui Province in 1584 or early 1585 . Both his father and elder brother Zhengxin ( 正心 , art name Wusuo , 無所 ) were physicians , and after he turned 30 he travelled with them while they practised medicine in the areas around Lu 'an and Huoshan . It is commonly stated that Zhengyan himself was also a doctor , though the earliest sources attesting to this occur only in the second half of the 19th century . 

 By 1619 , Hu had moved to Nanjing where he lived with his wife Wu . Their home on Jilongshan ( 雞籠山 , now also known as Beiji Ge ) , a hill located just within the northern city wall , served as a meeting @-@ house for like @-@ minded artists . Hu named it the Ten Bamboo Studio ( Shizhuzhai , 十竹齋 ) , after the ten bamboo plants that grew in front of the property . It functioned as the headquarters for his printing business , where he employed ten artisans including his two brothers Zhengxin and Zhengxing ( 正行 , art name Zizhu , 子著 ) and his sons Qipu ( 其樸 ) and Qiyi ( 其毅 , courtesy name 致果 ) . 

 During Hu 's lifetime , the Ming dynasty , which had ruled China for over 250 years , was overthrown and replaced by China 's last imperial dynasty , the Qing . Following the fall of the capital Beijing in 1644 , remnants of the imperial family and a few ministers set up a Ming loyalist regime in Nanjing with Zhu Yousong on the throne as the Hongguang Emperor . Hu , who was noted for his seal @-@ carving and facility with seal script , created a seal for the new Emperor . The court offered him the position of Drafter for the Secretariat ( zhongshu sheren , 中書舍人 ) as a reward , but he did not accept the role ( although he did accord himself the title of zhongshu sheren in some of his subsequent personal seals ) . 

 According to Wen Ruilin 's Lost History of the South ( Nanjiang Yishi , 南疆繹史 ) , prior to the Qing invasion of Nanjing Hu studied at the National University there , and whilst a student was employed by the Ministry of Rites to record official proclamations ; he produced the Imperial Promotion of Minor Learning ( Qin Ban Xiaoxue , 御頒小學 ) and the Record of Displayed Loyalty ( Biaozhong Ji , 表忠記 ) as part of this work . As a result , he was promoted to the Ministry of Personnel and gained admittance to the Hanlin Academy , but before he could take up this appointment , Beijing had fallen to the Manchu rebellion . Since contemporaneous biographies ( Wen 's work was not published until 1830 ) make no mention of these events , it has been suggested that they were fabricated after Hu 's death . 

 Hu retired from public life and went into seclusion in 1646 , after the end of the Ming dynasty . Xiao Yuncong and Lü Liuliang recorded visiting him during his later years , in 1667 and 1673 respectively . He died in poverty at the age of 90 , sometime around late 1673 or early 1674 . 


 = = Seal @-@ carving = = 


 Hu Zhengyan was a noted seal @-@ carver , producing personal seals for numerous dignitaries . His style was rooted in the classical seal script of the Han dynasty , and he followed the Huizhou school of carving founded by his contemporary He Zhen . Hu 's calligraphy , although balanced and with a clear compositional structure , is somewhat more angular and rigid than the classical models he followed . Huizhou seals attempt to impart an ancient , weathered impression , although unlike other Huizhou artists Hu did not make a regular practice of artificially aging his seals . 

 Hu 's work was known outside his local area . Zhou Lianggong , a poet who lived in Nanjing around the same time as Hu and was a noted art connoisseur , stated in his Biography of Seal @-@ Carvers ( Yinren Zhuan , 印人傳 ) that Hu " creates miniature stone carvings with ancient seal inscriptions for travellers to fight over and treasure " , implying that his carvings were popular with visitors and travellers passing through Nanjing . 

 In 1644 , Hu took it upon himself to create a new Imperial seal for the Hongguang Emperor , which he carved after a period of fasting and prayer . He presented his creation with an essay , the Great Exhortation of the Seal ( Dabao Zhen , 大寶印 ) , in which he bemoaned the loss of the Chongzhen Emperor 's seal and begged Heaven 's favour in restoring it . Hu was concerned that his essay would be overlooked because he had not written it in the form of rhyming , equally @-@ footed couplets ( pianti , 駢體 ) used in the Imperial examinations , but his submission and the seal itself were nevertheless both accepted by the Southern Ming court . 


 = = Ten Bamboo Studio = = 


 Despite his reputation as an artist and seal @-@ carver , Hu was primarily a publisher . His publishing house , the Ten Bamboo Studio , produced reference works on calligraphy , poetry and art ; medical textbooks ; books on etymology and phonetics ; and copies of as well as commentaries on the Confucian Classics . Unlike other publishers in the area , the Ten Bamboo Studio did not publish works of narrative fiction such as plays or novels . This bias towards academia was likely a consequence of the studio 's location : the mountain on which Hu took up residence was just to the north of the Nanjing Guozijian ( National Academy ) , which provided a captive market for academic texts . Between 1627 and 1644 , the Ten Bamboo Studio produced over twenty printed books of this kind , aimed at a wealthy , literary audience . The studio 's earliest publications were medical textbooks , the first of which , Tested Prescriptions for Myriad Illnesses ( Wanbing Yanfang , 萬病驗方 ) was published in 1631 and proved popular enough to be reissued ten years later . Hu 's brother Zhengxin was a medical practitioner and appears to have been the author of these books . 

 During the 1630s the Ten Bamboo Studio also produced political works extolling the rule of the Ming ; these included the Imperial Ming Record of Loyalty ( Huang Ming Biaozhong Ji , 皇明表忠紀 ) , a biography of loyal Ming officials , and the Edicts of the Imperial Ming ( Huang Ming Zhaozhi , 皇明詔制 ) , a list of Imperial proclamations . After the fall of the Ming Dynasty , Hu renamed the studio the Hall Rooted in the Past ( Digutang , 迪古堂 ) as a sign of his affiliation with the previous dynasty , although the Ten Bamboo imprint continued to be used . Despite Hu 's withdrawal from society after 1646 , the studio continued to publish well into the Qing dynasty , for the most part focussing on seal impression catalogues showcasing Hu 's carving work . 

 The Ming dynasty had seen considerable advancement in the process of colour printing in China . At his studio , Hu Zhengyan experimented with various forms of woodblock printing , creating processes for producing multi @-@ coloured prints and embossed printed designs . As a result , he was able to produce some of China 's first printed publications in colour , using a block printing technique known as " assorted block printing " ( douban yinshua , 饾板印刷 ) . This system made use of multiple blocks , each carved with a different part of the final image and each bearing a different colour . It was a lengthy , painstaking process , requiring thirty to fifty engraved printing blocks and up to seventy inkings and impressions to create a single image . Hu also employed a related form of multiple @-@ block printing called " set @-@ block printing " ( taoban yinshua , 套板印刷 ) , which had existed since the Yuan period some 200 years earlier but had only recently come into fashion again . He refined these block printing techniques by developing a process for wiping some of the ink off the blocks before printing ; this enabled him to achieve gradation and modulation of shades which were not previously possible . 

 In some images , Hu employed a blind embossing technique ( known as " embossed designs " ( gonghua , 拱花 ) or " embossed blocks " ( gongban , 拱板 ) , using an uninked , imprinted block to stamp designs onto paper . He used this to create white relief effects for clouds and for highlights on water or plants . This was a relatively new process , having been invented by Hu 's contemporary Wu Faxiang , who was also a Nanjing @-@ based publisher . Wu had used this technique for the first time in his book Wisteria Studio Letter Paper ( Luoxuan Biangu Jianpu , 蘿軒變古箋譜 ) , published in 1626 . Both Hu and Wu used embossing to create decorative writing papers , the sale of which provided a sideline income for the Ten Bamboo Studio . 


 = = Major works = = 


 Hu 's most notable work is the Ten Bamboo Studio Manual of Painting and Calligraphy ( Shizhuzhai Shuhuapu , 十竹齋書畫譜 ) , an anthology of around 320 prints by around thirty different artists ( including Hu himself ) , published in 1633 . It consists of eight sections , covering calligraphy , bamboo , flowers , rocks , birds and animals , plums , orchids and fruit . Some of these sections had been released previously as single volumes . As well as a collection of artworks , it was also intended as an artistic primer , with instructions on correct brush position and technique and several pictures designed for beginners to copy . Although these instructions only appear in the sections on orchids and bamboo , the book still remains the first example of a categorical and analytical approach to Chinese painting . In this book , Hu used his multiple @-@ block printing methods to obtain gradations of colour in the images , rather than obvious outlines or overlaps . The manual is bound in the " butterfly binding " ( hudie zhuang , 蝴蝶裝 ) style , whereby whole @-@ folio illustrations are folded so that each occupies a double @-@ page spread . This binding style allows the reader to lay the book flat in order to look at a particular image . Cambridge University Library released a complete digital scan of the manual , including all writings and illustrations in August , 2015 . Said Charles Aylmer , Head of the Cambridge University Chinese Department , " The binding is so fragile , and the manual so delicate , that until it was digitized , we have never been able to let anyone look through it or study it – despite its undoubted importance to scholars . " 

 This volume went on to influence colour printing across China , where it paved the way for the later but better @-@ known Manual of the Mustard Seed Garden ( Jieziyuan Huazhuan 芥子園畫傳 ) , and also in Japan , where it was reprinted and foreshadowed the development in ukiyo @-@ e of the colour woodblock printing process known as nishiki @-@ e 錦絵 . The popularity of the Ten Bamboo Studio Manual was such that print runs continued to be produced all the way through to the late Qing dynasty . 

 Hu also produced the work Ten Bamboo Studio Letter Paper ( Shizhuzhai Jianpu , 十竹齋箋譜 ) , a collection of paper samples , which made use of the gonghua stamped embossing technique to make the illustrations stand out in relief . Whilst primarily a catalogue of decorative writing papers , it also contained paintings of rocks , people , ritual vessels and other subjects . The book was bound in the " wrapped back " ( baobei zhuang , 包背裝 ) style , in which the folio pages are folded , stacked , and sewn along the open edges . Originally published in 1644 , it was reissued in four volumes between 1934 and 1941 by Zheng Zhenduo and Lu Xun , and revised and republished again in 1952 . 


 = = = Other publications = = = 


 Other works produced by Hu 's studio included a reprint of Zhou Boqi 's manual of seal @-@ script calligraphy , The Six Styles of Calligraphy , Correct and Erroneous ( Liushu Zheng 'e , 六書正譌 ) and the related Necessary Investigations into Calligraphy ( Shufa Bi Ji , 書法必稽 ) , which discussed common errors in the formation of characters . With his brother Zhengxin , Hu edited a new introductory edition of the Confucian classics , entitled The Standardised Text of the Four Books , Identified and Corrected ( Sishu Dingben Bianzheng , 四書定本辨正 ) ( 1640 ) , giving the correct formation and pronunciation of the text . A similar approach was taken with the Essentials of the Thousand Character Classic in Six Scripts ( Qianwen Liushu Tongyao , 千文六書統要 ) ( 1663 ) , which Hu compiled with the aid of his calligraphy teacher , Li Deng . It was published after Li 's death , partly in homage to him . 

 The three Hu brothers worked together to collate a student primer on poetry by their contemporary Ye Tingxiu , which was called simply the Discussion of Poetry ( Shi Tan , 詩譚 ) ( 1635 ) . Other works on poetry from the studio included Helpful Principles to the Subtle Workings of Selected Tang Poems ( Leixuan Tang Shi Zhudao Weiji , 類選唐詩助道微機 ) , which was a compilation of several works on poetry and included colophons by Hu Zhengyan himself . 

 Among the studio 's more obscure publications was a text on Chinese dominoes entitled Paitong Fuyu ( 牌統浮玉 ) , written under a pseudonym but with a preface by Hu Zhengyan . 


 = = Gallery = = 


 Images from the ' ' Ten Bamboo Studio Manual of Painting and Calligraphy ' ' 



 = Raid on Manila ( 1798 ) = 


 The Raid on Manila of January 1798 was a Royal Navy false flag military operation during the French Revolutionary Wars intended to scout the strength of the defences of Manila , capital of the Spanish Philippines , capture a Manila galleon and assess the condition of the Spanish Navy squadron maintained in the port . Spain had transformed from an ally of Great Britain in the War of the First Coalition into an enemy in 1796 . Thus the presence of a powerful Spanish squadron at Manila posed a threat to the China Fleet , an annual convoy of East Indiaman merchant ships from Macau in Qing Dynasty China to Britain , which was of vital economic importance to Britain . So severe was this threat that a major invasion of the Spanish Philippines had been planned from British India during 1797 , but had been called off following the Treaty of Campo Formio in Europe and the possibility of a major war in India between the British East India Company and the Kingdom of Mysore . 

 To ensure the safety of the merchant ships gathering at Macau in the winter of 1797 – 98 , the British commander in the East Indies , Rear @-@ Admiral Peter Rainier , sent a convoy to China escorted by the frigates HMS Sybille and HMS Fox and commanded by Captain Edward Cooke . After completing his mission Cooke decided to investigate the state of readiness of Spanish forces in Manila himself . He was also intrigued by reports that a ship carrying treasure was due to sail from Manila , which would make a valuable prize . Sailing in Sybille and accompanied by Captain Pulteney Malcolm in Fox , Cooke reached the Spanish capital on 13 January 1798 . 

 Anchored in Manila Bay , Cooke pretended that his ships were French vessels and successfully lured successive boatloads of Spanish officials aboard , taking them prisoner in turn . Once he had determined from his captives the state of defences in Manila , that the treasure ship had been unloaded at Cavite and that the Spanish squadron was undergoing extensive repairs and thus unavailable for operations , he sent a raiding party against a squadron of gunboats in the mouth of the Pasig River . Capturing the gunboats in a bloodless attack , Cooke then released his prisoners and sailed southwards , unsuccessfully assaulting Zamboanga before returning to Macau . 


 = = Background = = 


 In 1796 , after three years of the French Revolutionary Wars , Spain and the French Republic signed the Treaty of San Ildefonso . The secret terms of this treaty required Spain to renounce its alliance with Great Britain and subsequently to declare war on its former ally . In the East Indies this shift of political allegiance meant that the dominant British forces in the region were faced with the threat of attack from the Spanish Philippines to the east . Britain dominated the East Indies in 1796 , controlling the trade routes through the Indian Ocean from the ports of Bombay , Madras and Calcutta . Dutch Ceylon , the Dutch Cape Colony and parts of the Dutch East Indies had been captured in 1795 , and the French presence in the region had been confined to Île de France and a few subsidiary islands in the Western Indian Ocean . 

 Some of the most important trade routes began at Canton and Macau in Qing Dynasty China . Early in each year a large convoy known as the " China Fleet " , composed of large East Indiaman merchant ships in the employ of the British East India Company , sailed westwards to Europe from Macau laden with tea and other commercial cargo . This convoy was economically significant to Britain : one convoy in 1804 was valued at over £ 8 million ( the equivalent of £ 600 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 as of 2016 ) . In January 1797 the convoy had been attacked by the French squadron in the East Indies , comprising six frigates commanded by Contre @-@ amiral Pierre César Charles de Sercey . In the ensuing Bali Strait Incident the commander deceived Sercey into believing that the unescorted convoy contained disguised ships of the line and the French admiral retreated , only learning of his error on his return to Île de France . There was considerable concern in India that Sercey might try again in 1798 , or that the Spanish , who maintained a powerful squadron at Cavite , might make an attempt of their own . 

 Rainier 's initial impulse on learning in November 1796 of the impending declaration of war between Britain and Spain was to draw up plans for a major invasion of the Philippines , centred on Manila in repetition of the successful British capture of Manila in 1762 . Co @-@ operating with the Governor @-@ General of India Sir John Shore and Colonel Arthur Welleley among others , a substantial naval and military forces were earmarked for the operation which was in the advance planning stages , when unexpected news arrived in India in August 1797 announcing the Treaty of Campo Formio which brought the War of the First Coalition to an end . Britain now faced France and Spain alone , while emissaries from the Tipu Sultan of the Kingdom of Mysore , an old opponent of Britain in Southern India , were seeking French assistance with a renewed outbreak of hostilities . The resources planned for the operation against Manila were therefore retained in India and the operation cancelled , but the protection of the China Fleet was still essential and Rainier diverted some of his squadron eastwards to China . 

 A number of merchant ships had gathered at Bombay in the spring of 1797 in preparation for the trip to Macau to load trade goods and join the China Fleet . To escort this force , Rainier provided the 40 @-@ gun frigate HMS Sybille , captured from the French at the Battle of Mykonos in 1794 , and the 50 @-@ gun HMS Centurion , which sailed with the convoy in July , taking passage through the Straits of Malacca , joined there by the ships of the line HMS Victorious and HMS Trident and the 32 @-@ gun frigate HMS Fox under Captain Pulteney Malcolm for the final voyage to Macau . The convoy arrived without incident on 13 December 1797 , although the crews had been substantially weakened by tropical illnesses . 


 = = Cooke 's raids = = 



 = = = Reconnaissance of Manilla = = = 


 With his convoy safely at anchor in Macau and the China Fleet several weeks from sailing , Cooke decided to reconnoitre Manila and make observations on the port and the Spanish squadron based there . As an added motivation , rumours in Macau suggested that the annual Manila galleon was due to arrive . This ship brought up to two million Spanish silver dollars from Acapulco across the Pacific Ocean stopping at Guam on its way to Manila . Depositing its dollars in the Philippines , the ship then loaded trade goods from the East Indies for the return journey to New Spain . This round trip was essential to the maintenance of the Spanish Empire in the East Indies , which operated at an enormous financial loss only mitigated by the substantial subsidy from New Spain . Spanish dollars were the accepted currency across most of the East Indies , and disruption of this financial system could have profound effects on regional trade ; but British sailors had nevertheless been attacking the Manila galleons since Thomas Cavendish in 1587 . 

 Leaving the heavier warships at Macau , Cooke sailed on 5 January 1798 only with Sybille and Fox , the latter carrying a Mr. Bernard , an experienced linguist . Passing Luzon , Cooke 's ships encountered a small Spanish merchant vessel , which was lured towards the frigates , which were flying French tricolors . Seizing the Spanish vessel , Cooke closely questioned the captain and learned that most of the Spanish squadron in Manila were undergoing extensive repairs at Cavite and were unfit to sail . Cooke rewarded the captain by releasing his vessel with its cargo intact , although he did remove 3 @,@ 900 silver dollars . The Spanish squadron had suffered badly in a typhoon in April 1797 and much of the damage had still not been repaired by the time Cooke 's small squadron arrived off Manila . Cooke had taken precautions to disguise his ships as French vessels , modelling Sybille on the powerful 40 @-@ gun Forte and Fox on the smaller Prudente . 


 = = = Dinner on Sybille = = = 


 Late in the afternoon of 13 January 1798 , Sybille and Fox arrived in Manila Bay , slipping unchallenged past the fortress of Corregidor and then sailing across the bay on the morning of 14 January , anchoring between Manila and Cavite . From his vantage point Cooke could see the Spanish squadron dismasted and under repair in Cavite , the ships of the line San Pedro , Europa and Montañés and the frigates Maria de la Cabeya and Luisa in dock and unfit for action . To Cooke 's disappointment he could also see the Manila galleon , Marquesetta being unloaded at the Cavite docks and another valuable merchant ship Rey Carlos aground in the harbour . The Spanish had learned only shortly before Cooke 's arrival that the British frigate HMS Resistance under Captain Edward Pakenham was in Philippine waters and had decided to remove the valuable cargo from the treasure ship rather than risk an attack . 

 Fox was the first British ship into the anchorage , and was consequently approached by the guardboat , whose crew came aboard . Malcolm , like Cooke , spoke French fluently and with Bernard translating was able to persuade the officer in charge that the new arrivals were Forte and Prudente seeking supplies and Spanish reinforcements for commerce raiding operations . The officer offered supplies but cautioned that none of the Spanish ships would be in a position to sail until March at the earliest . Cooke then joined the party on the deck of Fox , claiming to be Commodore Latour , a French officer who , unknown to the Spanish , had been killed in the Action of 9 September 1796 off Sumatra . The Spanish officer was now completely convinced by the ruse , which had been augmented by fake French uniforms . Inviting the visitor below decks , Cooke then passed wine around and together they drank a series of toasts , including " the downfall of England " . 

 For an hour the officers drank , Malcolm and Cooke learning detailed information about the state of the defences and squadron in the Philippines , until a second boat pulled alongside Fox containing more officers keen to greet the French arrivals . This vessel was the personal barge of the Spanish commander at Cavite , Rear @-@ Admiral Don Ignacio María de Álava , who was not aboard , but who sent a message via an aide in a third boat . Each time , the officers were escorted below to join the festivities whereupon their crews were seized at gunpoint and taken below decks as prisoners of war . In Malcolm 's cabin , the captured officers were informed of their situation , promised release before the British frigates sailed , and offered more wine . The crew of Fox meanwhile forced the captured Spanish sailors to strip and donned their clothing . Climbing into the Spanish boats this party rowed for the mouth of the nearby Pasig River , where they had learned that three heavy gunboats were moored . Taking the crews by surprise , the British boarding parties drove off the Spanish without a fight and brought all three boats alongside Fox . These vessels normally carried crews of thirty and were well @-@ armed , one with a 32 @-@ pounder long gun and two with 24 @-@ pounder long guns , each supplemented by four swivel guns . 

 The harbour captain reached Fox shortly afterwards , furious at the seizure of the gunboats and demanding they be returned . Malcolm received him with a tirade of near incomprehensible French and brought him to join the other captured officers in his cabin , while the boat 's crew were imprisoned below decks . Shortly afterwards , at 16 : 00 , Cooke and Malcolm hosted a large dinner for their officer captives and sent food and grog to the crew , the total number of Spanish sailors on Fox now numbering approximately 200 . Once the meal was finished , Cooke allowed all of the captives to return to their boats and row for shore without the conditions of parole , although he retained the captured gunboats . 


 = = = Zamboanga = = = 


 Cooke led his small squadron past Corregidor on 15 January and turned south . Four days later in a storm one of the gunboats broke its tow line and was never seen again , lost with its twelve crew . The frigates subsequently scouted Mindanao before reaching Zamboanga on 22 January . There Cooke raised Spanish colours in an attempt to deceive the authorities into supplying food and water to his squadron but Sybille grounded on a sandbank at the entrance to the port which raised the suspicions of a guardboat sent by the governor of Zamboanga , Raymundo Español . The captain of the Spanish boat asked the British ships the names of their captains , and on receiving no answer but a volley of rifle fire , he put the town on alert . With the defenders forewarned , Cooke abandoned his ruse and after refloating Sybille the following morning , ordered a bombardment of the fort protecting the harbour . This had little effect , though later the Spanish recovered at least 450 cannonballs from different calibers , and Malcolm then attempted an amphibious landing in order to storm the landward side of the fort . The boats came under heavy fire , one smashed by a cannonball , killing two and wounding four . Another boat grounded on a sandbar and became stuck ; so with his force in disarray , as 250 villagers armed with lances ambushed and drove the British from the beach , Malcolm called off the operation . After exchanging shot for an hour both frigates cut their anchor cables and retreated out of range , with two dead and one wounded on Sybille and eight wounded on Fox , in addition to those lost in the boats . The defenders lost a single man killed and 4 wounded . 

 With his frigates now requiring repairs , Cooke withdraw half a league from Zamboanga and spent three days refitting the masts and rigging of the ships . Then he sailed north , scuttling the two remaining gunboats as he did not believe they would survive the return journey to Canton . Four days later , on 27 January the squadron halted at a village named " Pullock " in the north of the Sultanate of Maguindanao to collect fresh water . On the beach a boat party from Sybille was set upon by Lumad tribesmen . Two were killed and nine others taken captive and dragged into the forest before rescuers could arrive . Cooke complained to Sultan Kibab Sahriyal at Kuta Wato and the captured sailors were eventually recovered , although not before Sybille and Fox had sailed for China to escort the merchant convoy back to India . 


 = = Aftermath = = 


 Cooke 's opportunistic diversion had determined that the Spanish forces in the Philippines posed no immediate threat , although the mission had cost 18 lives : Admiral Rainier later expressed his satisfaction with the outcome in a letter to the Admiralty . More might have been achieved with reinforcements : Historian C. Northcote Parkinson suggests that had Cooke 's squadron united with Resistance together they may have been able to destroy the disarmed Spanish warships at Cavite . He also notes however that in this scenario Pakenham would have been commanding officer , a man with considerably less imagination and guile than Cooke . Historian Richard Woodman was critical of the mission , considering the operation to have " no glorious outcome " and citing the failure to capture the treasure ships as its greatest short @-@ coming . 

 The 1798 China Fleet sailed without further incident . During the ensuing year Resistance was destroyed by an accidental explosion in July in the Bangka Strait , and the majority of Rainier 's forces were focused on disrupting the French occupation of Suez in the Red Sea . This diversion of British resources created gaps in the coverage in merchant shipping and Sercey was able to send the frigate Preneuse and corvette Brûle @-@ Gueule to Manila late in the year to join the repaired Spanish squadron . At the beginning of February 1799 , this combined force sailed to Macau , taking the British defences by surprise . The British commander Captain William Hargood counterattacked , advancing on the Franco @-@ Spanish force which retreated during the day and disappeared under cover of darkness that evening in the Wanshan Archipelago . The combined squadron then dispersed and the China Fleet was not attacked again until the Battle of Pulo Aura in 1804 , at which a French squadron was again driven off in confusion . The frigates Cooke had mimicked , Forte and Prudente were sent to operate independently against British trade in the Indian Ocean in early 1799 . Prudente was captured by HMS Daedalus at the Action of 9 February 1799 near Southern Africa , and Forte was intercepted by HMS Sybille under Cooke on 28 February near Balasore in Bengal . In the ensuing battle Forte was captured but Cooke mortally wounded , dying on 25 May . 



 = B of the Bang = 


 B of the Bang was a sculpture by Thomas Heatherwick next to the City of Manchester Stadium in Manchester , England , which was commissioned to mark the 2002 Commonwealth Games ; it was one of the tallest structures in Manchester and the tallest sculpture in the UK until the completion of Aspire in 2008 . It was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa . The sculpture took its name from a quotation of British sprinter Linford Christie , in which he said that he started his races not merely at the " bang " of the starting pistol , but at " the B of the Bang " . 

 The sculpture was commissioned in 2003 ; construction overran and the official unveiling was delayed until 12 January 2005 . Six days before the launch , the sculpture suffered the first of three visible structural problems as the tip of one of the spikes detached and fell to the ground . Legal action started a year later , resulting in an out @-@ of @-@ court settlement totalling £ 1 @.@ 7 million . 

 In February 2009 , Manchester City Council announced that the sculpture would be dismantled and placed in storage . Despite the promise of storage and potential reassembly , the core and legs of the sculpture were cut apart during removal . The core was sold for scrap in July 2012 , while the 180 spikes remain in storage . 


 = = Design and statistics = = 


 B of the Bang originally stood 56 metres ( 184 ft ) tall with 180 hollow tapered steel columns or spikes radiating from a central core . It was angled at 30 degrees and supported by five 25 m ( 82 ft ) long , tapered steel legs which connected to the spikes 22 m ( 72 ft ) above the ground . The sculpture weighed 165 tonnes , with the concrete in the foundations weighing over 1 @,@ 000 tonnes , including a 400 m2 ( 4 @,@ 300 sq ft ) reinforced concrete slab . The foundations are 20 m ( 66 ft ) deep . 

 The sculpture was made from the same weathering steel ( also known as Cor @-@ Ten ) as the Angel of the North sculpture , which gradually develops a tightly adhering oxide layer as it is exposed to the elements . This layer inhibits further corrosion by reducing its permeability to water . As part of the design , the spikes swayed slightly in the wind in order to withstand gusts in excess of 100 mph ( 160 km / h ) . At the time of construction a time capsule was placed in one of the spikes of the sculpture , containing children 's poems and paintings , due to be opened circa 2300 . The location of the time capsule after dismantling is currently unknown . 

 B of the Bang was located next to the City of Manchester Stadium at Sportcity , in Beswick , at the corner of Alan Turing Way and Ashton New Road ; . It took its name from a quotation of British sprinter Linford Christie in which he said that he started his races not merely at the ' bang ' of the starting pistol , but at ' The B of the Bang ' . The artwork had been nicknamed KerPlunk by the locals after the popular children 's game from the 1970s . 

 Prior to the construction of Aspire at the University of Nottingham , B of the Bang was Britain 's tallest sculpture at well over twice the height of the Angel of the North , which stands at 66 feet ( 20 m ) . It was designed to look like an exploding firework and was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa . It was commissioned by New East Manchester Limited to commemorate the 2002 Commonwealth Games . The design was selected by a panel consisting of both local residents and art experts via a competition in 2002 and was designed by Thomas Heatherwick . 


 = = Construction and funding = = 


 The sculpture was constructed in Sheffield by Thomas Heatherwick Studio , Packman Lucas , Flint and Neill and Westbury Structures . It was approved at the start of 2003 , with the central core arriving in Manchester on 13 June 2004 . This was the largest load that could be transferred via road from the factory , and required a police escort . This central core was lifted into place in August 2004 , after which the 180 spikes could begin being attached . Early estimates had given an optimistic completion date of July 2003 , which contributed to the sculpture gaining the nickname G of the Bang . 

 The official unveiling by Linford Christie took place on 12 January 2005 . 

 In total the sculpture cost £ 1 @.@ 42 million to design and construct — twice the original estimate , as the initial costing had neglected to include installation costs . Funding was sourced from a European Regional Development Fund contribution of £ 700 @,@ 000 , the North West Development Agency , contributing £ 500 @,@ 000 , and Manchester City Council providing £ 120 @,@ 000 . 


 = = Structural problems and legal action = = 


 The tip of one of the 2 @.@ 1 m ( 6 @.@ 9 ft ) spikes detached and fell from the sculpture on 6 January 2005 , only six days before the official unveiling . After inspection , the event went ahead as planned . 

 Four months later , in May 2005 , a second spike had to be cut off by firefighters after it was discovered hanging loose . At that time the sculpture was closed off to the public , and the junction and pathway near the sculpture were temporarily closed . As a result , some of the joints were re @-@ welded , with equipment put in place to prevent excessive movement . This consisted of retrofitting tip weights to 70 % of the spikes ' weights . 

 Despite these modifications , B of the Bang remained fenced off , prompting a local newspaper campaign to ' Get It Sorted ' . In May 2006 a total of nine spikes were removed from the sculpture and taken away for metallurgical analysis , to discover the stresses being placed on the steel . 

 It was announced in October 2007 that Manchester City Council were taking legal action against the makers of the sculpture , with the aim of completing the necessary repairs to the sculpture . In November 2008 this culminated in an out @-@ of @-@ court settlement being reached between Manchester City Council , the project 's designers Thomas Heatherwick Studio Ltd , and the engineering and construction subcontractors Packman Lucas Ltd , Flint and Neill Partnership and Westbury Structures Ltd . The agreement was to pay the council £ 1.7m in damages for breach of contract and negligence . 


 = = Dismantling = = 


 Acting on a report in January 2009 , the city council recommended that B of the Bang should be dismantled and placed in storage until funds could be raised for its safe reinstatement . The report recognised the sculpture 's aesthetic value for Manchester and Manchester City Council committed itself to working with the artist to reach a long @-@ term solution . One possibility involved the replacement of the steel spikes with alternatives made from carbon fibre , although the report underlined the necessity for extensive testing . 

 In January 2009 , Antony Gormley , creator of the Angel of the North — to which B of the Bang is often compared — spoke out in support of the sculpture , stating that , " It is a great tribute to Manchester that this ground @-@ breaking work was commissioned . To allow it to disappear would be a loss not just of an inspirational artwork but also of the council 's nerve . " 

 Despite Gormley 's plea , removal of B of the Bang began in April 2009 . More substantial hoarding was erected around the site and demolition firm Connell Brothers Limited began removing the spikes with oxyacetylene cutting equipment . 

 Although the council had promised to store the complex central core and legs , these too were cut apart during removal , casting doubt on future prospects for the landmark sculpture 's return , and in early July 2012 the core was sold as scrap for £ 17 @,@ 000 . 



 = Battle of the Hongorai River = 


 The Battle of the Hongorai River took place during the Second World War and involved Australian , New Zealand and Japanese forces . Part of the wider Bougainville Campaign of the Pacific theatre , the battle was fought in the southern sector of Bougainville Island . Coming after the Battle of Slater 's Knoll in which a strong Japanese counterattack was defeated , the battle occurred in two distinct periods between 17 April and 22 May 1945 , as elements of the Australian 15th Brigade advanced south along the Buin Road . 

 The initial phase saw the Australians advance towards the Hongorai River . Following the end of the early fighting , the Australian advance towards the main Japanese concentration at Buin continued as they struck out towards the Hari and Mivo Rivers . This continued until torrential rain and flooding brought the advance to a halt short of the objective , washing away many bridges and roads upon which the Australians relied for supplies . As the Australian advance stalled , the Japanese began harassing the Australian line of communications , and as the rain stopped and the flooding subsided in late @-@ July and into August , the Australians began making preparations to resume the advance towards Buin again . Ultimately , though , the war came to an end before the final Australian advance began , bringing the campaign to an end . 


 = = Background = = 



 = = = Strategic situation = = = 


 Japanese forces had landed on Bougainville in early 1942 , capturing it from the small force of Australians garrisoning the island . They had subsequently developed several airbases on the island , using it to conduct operations in the northern Solomon Islands and to attack the Allied lines of communication between the United States , Australia and the Southwest Pacific Area . These bases also helped protect Rabaul , the major Japanese garrison and naval base in Papua New Guinea , and throughout 1943 , Allied planners determined that Bougainville was vital for neutralising the Japanese base around Rabaul . 

 US Marines conducted an amphibious landing at Cape Torokina , on the western coast of the island , north of Empress Augusta Bay , in November 1943 . After an initial counter @-@ attack , the US Marines had been replaced by a garrison of US Army troops who began consolidating their position around Torokina , establishing a strong perimeter . In March 1944 , the Japanese launched a heavy counter @-@ attack , which was turned back with heavy casualties . After this , the situation on Bougainville became largely static , as the Japanese focused primarily on subsistence , and the US forces chose to adopt a mainly defensive posture focused on maintaining the perimeter around Torokina . 

 In late 1944 , as part of plans to free US troops up for the Philippines campaign , the Australian II Corps — consisting of mainly Militia troops under the command of Lieutenant General Stanley Savige — took over responsibility for Allied operations on Bougainville from the American XIV Corps . Australian forces began arriving on the island between November and December 1944 , initially establishing themselves around the US base at Torokina . Due to inaccurate intelligence , Savige mistakenly believed that the Japanese forces on the island numbered just 17 @,@ 500 men , and he consequently decided that the Australians would pursue an aggressive campaign to clear the Japanese from Bougainville in order to free their troops for subsequent operations elsewhere , rather than maintaining the defensive posture the US forces had adopted . However , Allied estimates of Japanese strength were later found to be grossly inaccurate and after the war it was found that the number of Japanese on the island at this time was closer to 40 @,@ 000 . 

 The campaign that Australian planners developed entailed three separate drives : in the north , it was planned that Japanese forces would be forced into the narrow Bonis Peninsula and contained ; in the centre the seizure of Pearl Ridge would give the Australians control of the east – west avenues of approach , as well as affording them protection against further counter @-@ attacks , while also opening the way for a drive to the east coast ; and the main campaign in the south , where the bulk of the Japanese forces were concentrated around Buin . 


 = = = Preliminary moves = = = 


 Following the capture of Pearl Ridge in December 1944 , the Australian 7th Brigade had been moved south and allocated to the drive towards Buin . In late March and early April 1945 , they had fought the Battle of Slater 's Knoll after which a brief lull followed as the Australians paused to shorten their supply lines . Meanwhile , the survivors of the Japanese force , heavily demoralised by their defeat , withdrew towards the Hongorai River . The Australian 3rd Division was then ordered to resume its advance south , being tasked with capturing the Hari River , while the Hongorai was also included as an " intermediate objective " . Japanese strength in the southern sector was estimated by the Australians at about 10 @,@ 500 men , of which 2 @,@ 300 were believed to be directly opposing the 3rd Division . The 15th Brigade was considered to be the most experienced of the Australian units on Bougainville at the time and was moved up to relieve the 7th Brigade , which was in need of rest . 

 Under the command of Brigadier Heathcote Hammer the 15th Brigade consisted of three infantry battalions as well as two troops of tanks from the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , engineers from the 15th Field Company , a battery of 155 @-@ mm guns from ' U ' Heavy Battery , field artillery from the 2nd Field Regiment , and a number of smaller support units . The 58th / 59th Infantry Battalion took over responsibility for Slater 's Knoll replacing the 25th Infantry Battalion while the 24th Infantry Battalion took up a position across the Buin Road . The brigade 's third battalion — the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion — did not join them until the beginning of May , and so the 7th Brigade 's 9th Infantry Battalion continued patrolling operations north of the Huio River , in the Rumiki area , until the 57th / 60th could dispatch elements to relieve them . Further inland , the 2 / 8th Commando Squadron advanced in a wide arc to the south @-@ east , defending the brigade 's left , or eastern , flank . 

 The Japanese forces opposing the Australians belonged to the 6th Division , under the command of Lieutenant General Tsutomu Akinaga . Akinaga had been ordered to delay the Australian advance between the Hongorai and the Hari for as long as possible , and with these orders in mind he had installed a number of strong points along the Australian 's expected line of advance . The division 's infantry had suffered heavily in the previous battle around Slater 's Knoll and as a consequence , several units had to be reorganized or amalgamated . The front line positions were assigned to the 6th Field Artillery Regiment , while the 13th Infantry Regiment was to hold five strongpoints to their rear along and astride the Buin Road , designated ' A ' through to ' E ' . The 6th Field and 4th Field Heavy Artillery Regiments both held strongpoints further back , designated ' F ' and ' G ' . The 23rd Infantry Regiment was placed in the rear , where it was being reconstituted following losses suffered during the attack on Slater 's Knoll . 


 = = Battle = = 



 = = = Advance to the Hongorai = = = 


 The 15th Brigade took over the forward positions from the 7th Brigade on 17 April . Initial dispositions had the 24th Infantry Battalion on the Buin Road around Kero Creek , with the 58th / 59th around Barara , north @-@ east of Slater 's Knoll , and the 57th / 60th , when it arrived to relieve the 9th , would be positioned further east astride a secondary , parallel track known to the Australians as the Commando Road . Two days later , Hammer received the order to commence the advance towards the Hongorai from Savige , who offered him the support of the 29th Brigade as a mobile reserve in case of sudden counter @-@ attack . In a change to the tactics that the Australians had previously employed prior to the fighting around Slater 's Knoll , from early May they advanced on a two @-@ battalion front , instead of one . The 24th Infantry Battalion was in the van , moving along the Buin Road with the 58th / 59th protecting its flank and rear ; while 5 @,@ 000 yd ( 4 @,@ 600 m ) further inland the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion , commencing on 3 May , advanced along the Commando Road from Rumiki , after taking over from the 9th Infantry Battalion . 

 Moving forward under a creeping barrage as they moved beyond Tokinotu , the 24th Infantry Battalion was the first to contact the Japanese , carrying out an attack against Japanese positions around Dawe 's Creek on 17 April . Supported by a troop of Matilda tanks from the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , an artillery barrage which fired over 700 shells , two infantry companies — ' C ' and ' D ' — from the 24th attacked the position while another — ' A ' Company — carried out a flanking manoeuvre to cut another track further north towards Kindara and Hatai . The left forward company — ' D ' Company — reached its objective without trouble ; however , ' C ' Company — on the right along with the troop of tanks — came up against stiff Japanese resistance and became bogged down . ' A ' Company also became embroiled in heavy fighting along the Hatai track . In support of ' A ' Company , Matilidas came forward and raked the jungle , hacking through the undergrowth to reveal several Japanese pillboxes , which were destroyed by the Australian armour . As night fell , ' C ' Company dug in before resuming the attack the next morning . Engineers were brought forward , as was a bulldozer , and the gap was bridged . Amidst heavy fighting , the Australians forced their way across the creek . By the time that the position had been taken in the afternoon and the infantry had advanced to the line of exploitation 400 yd ( 370 m ) beyond the creek , 37 Japanese had been killed for the loss of seven Australians killed and 19 wounded . After this , the Australians continued their advance towards Sindou Creek , which was a further 1 mi ( 1 @.@ 6 km ) to the southeast . In response , the Japanese launched a number of determined counterattacks over the course of the following week , although these were turned back . During this time , the Australians sent a number of patrols out in front of their forward elements , one of which managed to slip through the Japanese defensive positions either side of the Buin Road and carried out a reconnaissance of the Hongorai River about 1 @,@ 000 yd ( 910 m ) south of the main crossing . Further patrols were carried out , as well as a number of ambushes , before the advance was resumed on 26 April . 

 Resuming their advance , the Australians were supported by three squadrons of Corsairs from the Royal New Zealand Air Force — Nos. 14 , 22 and 26 Squadrons — which bombed and strafed the ground in front of the advancing infantry , as well as a creeping barrage of artillery and mortar fire . With such strong support the Japanese offered little resistance and over the course of two days the 24th Infantry Battalion covered almost a third of the distance to the Hongorai , for just one man wounded . Further progress was made over the next week , but on 4 May the advance was slowed when they encountered a roadblock defended by a field gun along with a machine gun , mines and other improvised explosive devices . After this , the 15th Brigade 's engineer support were called upon to regularly carry out route clearance and proving operations as the Japanese became increasingly desperate to destroy the Australian armour , to the extent that they were prepared to sacrifice an artillery piece in order to lure the Australian tanks into a trap where they could be destroyed by mines . The Japanese began to adapt their tactics in other ways also . To negate the effectiveness of the Australian tanks , the Japanese began to position themselves off the roads , forcing the infantry to fight without their armoured support . Additionally , the Japanese began to concentrate their artillery with increasing accuracy upon the advancing infantry , which they kept under constant observation and fire . 

 Meanwhile , the previous day , 3 May , the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion had begun operating along the parallel Commando Road to the north . Here they had a number of encounters and suffered casualties due to their inexperience in patrolling , which resulted in them being ambushed . They also kept up a steady advance and eventually beat the main force in reaching , and crossing the river , arriving there on 6 May . On 5 May , along the Buin Road , the 24th Infantry Battalion had pressed forward again . Advancing with a tank troop in support , they came up against a concealed field gun defended by approximately 100 Japanese . After the lead Matilda 's machine gun jammed , the field gun opened fire on it , damaging it and wounding its crew . Moving around the stricken tank , the second Matilda , armed with a howitzer , opened fire and destroyed the field gun before sweeping the Japanese defenders from the position . That night , the Japanese artillery opened up on the Australian position with a heavy barrage , and the following morning put in a company @-@ sized counter @-@ attack . The fighting lasted for over two @-@ and @-@ a @-@ half hours , but when it was over the Australians remained in possession of the position having repulsed the attack . In doing so , they suffered one killed and nine wounded , while the attacking Japanese had suffered heavily , losing 58 men killed . It was the biggest loss since the action at Slater 's Knoll and it spelt the end of their attempt to defend the Hongorai . 

 After this , the Australians were able to resume their advance to the river on 7 May without further opposition . The previous three weeks in which they had advanced 7 @,@ 000 yd ( 6 @,@ 400 m ) to the Hongorai had been costly for them , however , with the Australian 24th Infantry Battalion losing 25 killed and 95 wounded . Against this , the Japanese had lost at least 169 killed . 


 = = = Crossing the Hongorai = = = 


 Following the advance to the Hongorai , there was a pause of about a week as the Australians had to wait for roads to be improved and supplies to be brought up , before attempting to cross the Hongorai en masse . This allowed Savige to re @-@ evaluate the situation and to issue new orders for the advance towards the Hari and Mivo Rivers . As they waited for the advance to resume , the Australians carried out reconnaissance patrols deep into Japanese held territory and there were a couple of significant engagements during this time . As a part of these , the 24th Infantry Battalion sent a company across the Hongorai and subsequently located a strong Japanese position on a feature that became known as Egan 's Ridge , which , due to its location , commanded the main Australian axis of advance . 

 The main crossing was planned for 20 May , with the 58th / 59th Infantry Battalion on the right tasked to cut the Buin Road and the Aitara Track to the east of the river , while on the left the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion would divert the attention of the Japanese off the 24th Infantry Battalion which would make the main frontal assault from the centre of the Australian line , crossing at the Pororei ford , advancing straight up the Buin Road . Preliminary moves began before this , and on 15 May a platoon from the 24th Infantry Battalion along with two tanks attempted to carry out an attack on Egan 's Ridge . After one of the tanks was held up and knocked out by a Japanese field gun , they were forced to withdraw . Meanwhile , the RNZAF Corsair squadrons — now reinforced by No. 16 Squadron — began an eight @-@ day aerial campaign , attacking along the length of the Buin and Commando Roads . During this period , the New Zealanders flew 381 sorties , while artillery and mortars fired " thousands of rounds " . 

 Two days later , on 17 May , the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion began its diversionary move on the left flank , crossing the Hongorai inland and advancing along the Commando Road with 32 Corsairs and two batteries of artillery in support . Crossing 500 yd ( 460 m ) north of the ford , the centre company carried out an attack along the far bank of the river without its armoured support which had been unable to negotiate the crossing . Nevertheless , shortly before noon they had secured the crossing and began to fan out , carrying out further flanking moves before establishing a firm base to receive supplies and from where it began patrolling operations on 20 May . 

 In the centre , the main attack along the Buin Road began at 08 : 30 on 20 May after 20 minutes of strafing by New Zealand Corsairs had prepared the ground . Advancing under a creeping barrage , and with mortar and machine gun support , the 24th Infantry Battalion moved forward with three companies up front and one held back in reserve , along with two troops of Matilda tanks . Mostly the forward companies reached their objectives , but one of the companies was halted just short of their objective and was forced to dig @-@ in overnight after coming under heavy small arms and artillery fire and losing four killed and five wounded . The attack was resumed the following day , and the Australians were able to advance to the Pororei ford ; however , they were prevented from moving any further as the Japanese were still concentrated in large numbers further to the west where an Australian patrol encountered 70 Japanese and were forced to go to ground . Finally , a company from the 24th Infantry Battalion was able to move on to the high ground on Egan 's Ridge , which they found to be heavily mined and booby trapped . Engineers and assault pioneers were called up to clear the feature . 

 On the right flank , the 58th / 59th Infantry Battalion carried out a wide flanking move along a track that had been carved out of the west bank of the Hongorai by bulldozer . Beginning their move two days earlier , a number of patrols had had contacts with the Japanese . Meanwhile , using tractors to drag the tanks through the mud , the Australian armour had crossed the river also and by 16 : 00 on 20 May the battalion had managed to establish itself in an assembly area to the east of the river , unbeknown to the Japanese . The following day , the battalion left the line of departure and began to advance on its primary objective , which it reached in the early afternoon despite being held up while the tanks attempted to affect a creek crossing , and further delayed by stiff resistance . Later , after one of the battalion 's patrols came under heavy fire , the tanks moved up and attacked a Japanese gun position which the defenders quickly abandoned , leaving behind a 70 mm gun and a large amount of ammunition . 

 By 22 May , although there were still a number of Japanese in the area which continued to harass and ambush their line of communications , most of the Australian objectives had been secured and mopping up operations began . The last remaining defensive location before the Hongorai was Egan 's Ridge , where the Japanese were sheltering in tunnels . A heavy aerial and artillery bombardment devastated the position and forced them to abandon the ridge . It was subsequently occupied by a company of Australian infantry . Within a short period of time the Buin Road was subsequently opened , providing the Australians with the means with which to bring up supplies for the next stage of the campaign , being the advance to the Hari , Mobiai , and Mivo Rivers . The final phase of the battle cost the Japanese 106 killed , while the Australians lost 13 killed and 64 wounded . 


 = = Aftermath = = 


 During the course of the fighting around the Hongorai , the Australians lost 38 men killed and 159 wounded , while the Japanese lost at least 275 men killed . Following the battle , the Australians continued their advance towards Buin at the southern end of the island . Throughout the remainder of the month and into June , the 15th Brigade advanced along the Buin Road , crossing the Hari on 10 June . Beyond the river , the Japanese resolved to hold the food growing areas in order to protect their precarious food supply , and they consequently occupied a series of deep entrenchments . These were steadily reduced with airstrikes and artillery , and the 15th Brigade subsequently crossed Mobiai River before being relieved by Brigadier Noel Simpson 's 29th Brigade in early July . 

 As the 29th Brigade advanced toward the Mivo River , torrential rain and flooding ultimately brought the advance to a halt . The height of the river rose 2 metres ( 6 @.@ 6 ft ) . The Buin Road was reduced , in the words of Gavin Long , " to a sea of mud " and many of the bridges upon which the Australian supply system was dependent were washed away . This rendered large @-@ scale offensive infantry operations impossible and as the situation worsened for a period of time the Australians even ceased patrolling operations across the Mivo ; meanwhile , the Japanese continued to harass the Australians , probing their positions and setting mines and traps , targeting the Australian line of communications . On 9 July , the 15th Infantry Battalion fought off a series of attacks around Siskatekori , at the junction of the Mivo River and the Buin Road , which included a heavy Japanese artillery bombardment . Australian patrols were resumed in late July and continued into August . These attacks proved very costly , particularly amongst the Australian engineers that were tasked with rebuilding the bridges and roads that had been destroyed in the flooding . 

 Fighting in the northern sector continued during this time also , and although preparations in the south for the final advance towards Buin continued into August , combat operations on the island ceased as the war came to an end before these were completed . As a result , the final Australian operations on Bougainville took place on the Ratsua front in the northern sector , where the Australians had been conducting a holding action since the failed landing at Porton Plantation had forced them to abandon plans for an advance into the Bonis Peninsula . By mid @-@ August , however , following the dropping of two atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and Japan 's subsequent unconditional surrender , a cease fire was ordered on the island and although there were minor clashes following this , it spelt an end to major combat operations . 

 Following the end of the war , the Australian Army awarded three battle honours for the fighting around the Hongorai River . The 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , and the 9th , 24th , 57th / 60th and 58th / 59th Infantry Battalions received the battle honour " Hongorai River " . A second battle honour — " Egan 's Ridge – Hongorai Ford " — was also awarded to the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , and the 24th and 58th / 59th Infantry Battalions for the second stage of the fighting , while the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion received the separate battle honour of " Commando Road " for this period . 



 = Sonic the Hedgehog ( 1991 video game ) = 


 Sonic the Hedgehog is a platform video game developed by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the Sega Genesis console . The game was first released in North America , Europe and Australia in June 1991 , and in Japan the following month . The game features an anthropomorphic hedgehog named Sonic in a quest to defeat Dr. Robotnik , a scientist who has imprisoned animals in robots and stolen the magical Chaos Emeralds . Sonic the Hedgehog 's gameplay involves collecting rings as a form of health and a simple control scheme , with jumping and attacking controlled by a single button . 

 The game 's development began in 1990 , when Sega ordered its AM8 development team to create a game featuring a mascot for the company . After considering a number of suggestions , the developers decided on a blue hedgehog with spikes along his head and spine and renamed themselves " Sonic Team " to match their character . Sonic the Hedgehog , designed for fast gameplay , was influenced by the games of Super Mario series creator , Shigeru Miyamoto . Sonic the Hedgehog uses a novel technique that allows Sonic 's sprite to roll along curved scenery , which originated in a tech demo created by the game 's programmer , Yuji Naka . 

 The game was well received by critics , who praised its visuals , music , and speed of gameplay . The game was also commercially successful , establishing the Genesis as a key player in the 16 @-@ bit era and allowing it to compete with Nintendo and their Super NES console . It has been ported a number of times , and inspired several clones , a successful franchise , and adaptations by other media . 


 = = Plot = = 


 In an attempt to steal the six Chaos Emeralds and harness their power , the game 's antagonist , Dr. Ivo Robotnik , has trapped the animal inhabitants of South Island in aggressive robots and stationary metal capsules . The player controls Sonic , who aims to halt Robotnik 's plans by freeing his animal friends and collecting the emeralds himself . 

 If the player collects all the Chaos Emeralds and completes the game , a reward ending sequence is shown . If all the emeralds are not collected , Robotnik taunts the player while juggling the Chaos Emeralds instead . 


 = = Gameplay = = 


 Sonic the Hedgehog is a 2D , side @-@ scrolling platformer , whose gameplay centers around Sonic 's ability to run at high speed through levels incorporating springs , slopes , high falls , and loop @-@ the @-@ loops . The levels contain hazards in the form of robots ( " badniks " in the Western game manuals ) inside of which Dr. Robotnik has trapped animals . Although destroying a robot frees the animal within , this is not required to complete the game . The player must avoid rows of sharp spikes , falling into bottomless pits , being crushed by moving walls or platforms , and drowning ( which can be avoided by breathing air bubbles periodically released from vents ) . Sonic 's main attack is his spin , where he curls into a ball and rotates rapidly ( damaging enemies and some obstacles ) . This can be performed by jumping in the air or rolling on the ground . 

 Scattered around each level map are gold rings , and collecting 100 rings rewards the player with an extra life . Rings are a layer of protection against hazards ; if Sonic has at least one ring when he collides with an enemy ( or obstacle ) , he will survive . However , all his rings will be scattered ; they will flicker and disappear in a few seconds if they are not picked up again . If Sonic is hit without any rings , he loses a life . Although shields and temporary invincibility may be collected to provide additional protection , certain hazards ( such as drowning , being crushed , falling down a bottomless pit or running out of time ) will cost Sonic a life regardless of rings or other protection . 

 The game is divided into six zones ( Green Hill , Marble , Spring Yard , Labyrinth , Star Light , and Scrap Brain ) , each with its own visual style and enemies . A player must navigate through each zone ( subdivided into three acts ) to progress . At the end of each zone 's third act , the player confronts Dr. Robotnik ( who pilots a different vehicle each time ) in a boss fight . After the sixth zone , the player continues directly to the Final Zone for a last encounter with Robotnik . 

 The player begins with three lives ( power @-@ ups and rings add more ) , which are lost when Sonic collides with hazardous enemies ( or objects ) without rings , falls off @-@ screen or exceeds an act 's ten @-@ minute time limit . Lampposts acting as checkpoints allow Sonic to return to the most @-@ recently activated post when he loses a life . If he loses a life as a result of time running out but has another life , the timer will reset to 0 : 00 when he returns to the checkpoint . If all lives are lost at any point in the game , the game over screen will appear ( when the player can return to the beginning of the act with three lives , if they have any continues ) . 

 When Sonic reaches the end of act one or act two of a zone with at least fifty rings , a large ring appears through which he can jump to enter a Special Stage ( a " Secret Zone " in the original Genesis manual ) . In each of six Special Stages , Sonic bounces off the bumpers and walls of a rotating maze in spin attack . Although the player earns a continue with each 50 rings found , their main goal is to obtain the Chaos Emerald at the end of the maze without colliding with a " goal block " ( which ends the level ) . 


 = = Development = = 



 = = = Background and character design = = = 


 In 1990 , Sega ordered its in @-@ house development studio , AM8 , to develop a game featuring a mascot for the company . This was a position already held by the character Alex Kidd , but he was considered similar to Mario and deemed unsatisfactory ; Sega president Hayao Nakayama wanted a character as iconic as Mickey Mouse . Sega had competition from Nintendo and its mascot , Mario , in mind ; Nintendo was dominant at the time , particularly after the release of the successful Super Mario Bros. 3 , and Sega wanted a foothold in the industry . Although the company had some success with Genesis ports of its arcade titles , it knew this would not be enough . 

 AM8 developed ideas for characters , an engine , and gameplay mechanics . Development emphasized speed , so AM8 eliminated character designs not associated with fast animals , as well as fast creatures like kangaroos and squirrels . One idea , a rabbit able to grasp objects with prehensile ears , showed promise at first but was too complex for the available hardware . The team narrowed its search to animals that can roll into a ball , their idea for an attacking move . Designers then realized that this would not seem aggressive enough , so they focused on two animals with spikes : armadillos and hedgehogs . The hedgehog character , first proposed by Naoto Ohshima , prevailed , although the armadillo would later become the basis for Mighty the Armadillo ( who first appeared in 1993 's SegaSonic the Hedgehog ) . Ohshima has admitted since that he created Sonic 's basic design by combining Felix the Cat 's head with Mickey Mouse 's body . 

 Sonic was originally teal @-@ colored , then a light shade of blue , but he was changed to dark blue so he would stand out against certain backgrounds and to match the Sega logo . His shoes were colored red through the inspiration of Michael Jackson 's boots on the album cover for Bad and the outfit of Santa Claus , whom Ohshima saw as the most " famous character in the world " . Sonic 's spikes were emphasized to make him look sleeker , and he was given the ability to spin while jumping ( so attacking and jumping could be controlled with one button ) . The new character was originally named " Mr. Needlemouse " , but the eight @-@ member AM8 changed his name to " Sonic " and their studios to Sonic Team . Ideas proposed to flesh out the character included placing him in a rock band , giving him vampire fangs , and giving him a human girlfriend named Madonna , but Sega of America scrapped these ideas to keep his identity simple . Sega of America also expressed concerns that most Americans would not know what a hedgehog is and initially proposed a full @-@ scale recreation of the character , but compromised with Sonic Team to simply make design changes . The antagonist ended up being named " Dr. Eggman " in Japan and " Dr. Robotnik " in other regions as a result of a dispute between Sega 's American and Japanese divisions . 


 = = = Programming and prototyping = = = 


 With a satisfying protagonist completed , Sega turned to esteemed programmer Yuji Naka , who had impressed them through his work on Phantasy Star and the Genesis port of Ghouls ' n Ghosts . The gameplay originated with a tech demo by Naka , who developed an algorithm allowing a sprite to move smoothly on a curve by determining its position with a dot matrix . Naka 's prototype was a platform game with a fast @-@ moving character rolling in a ball through a long , winding tube , and this concept was fleshed out with Ohshima 's character designs and levels by designer Hirokazu Yasuhara . Yasuhara originally intended to work on the game for three months due to the delay of his planned move to the United States by the outbreak of the Gulf War , but was engrossed in the project for nearly a year . His designs for levels were intended to attract both hardcore and casual gamers by integrating occasional challenging set pieces into the mostly accessible level design . The game 's color scheme was influenced by the work of pop artist Eizin Suzuki , and the aesthetics of Green Hill were influenced by the geography of California . 

 In designing the game mechanics , Naka was inspired by Shigeru Miyamoto , whose games he had enjoyed playing years earlier . Admiring the simplicity of Miyamoto 's mechanics in complex environments , Naka decided that Sonic would be controlled with only a directional pad for movement and a single button for jumping . He also wanted his creation to be more action @-@ oriented than the Mario series ; while playing Super Mario Bros. , he had wondered why the levels could not be cleared more quickly . Due to the need to demonstrate the Genesis ' technological prowess , the developing game underwent extensive testing and redesign , a process taking over six months . The developers ' efforts were rewarded ; according to Yuji Naka , the game had the fastest @-@ ever character speed in a video game and a rotation effect in the special stages that was considered impossible on the console . The team intended to add a two @-@ player mode displayed via split @-@ screen , but Naka 's programming knowledge was insufficient to implement this feature . However , such a mode would later appear in sequel Sonic the Hedgehog 2 ( 1992 ) , where the second player would control Sonic 's best friend Miles " Tails " Prower . Naka , Oshima , and Yasuhara worked 19 hours a day on the project for several months . 

 Naka 's relationship with Sega of Japan was tenuous during this time ; he received little credit for his involvement in the game . He left the company shortly after the game 's release , although Sega of America hired him later . Before leaving , however , he defied Sega of Japan 's prohibition of developer credits by displaying a few names in black text on a black background , identifiable only by looking at the game 's code . 


 = = = Music = = = 


 The music for Sonic the Hedgehog was composed and produced by Masato Nakamura , bassist and lead songwriter of the J @-@ pop band Dreams Come True . The game uses onboard Yamaha YM2612 and SN76489 programmable sound generators to produce a variety of stereo sound effects and music . It was originally intended to have a sound test menu with animations of Sonic breakdancing to the music of a " Sonic Band " of Sharps Chicken on guitar , Max Monkey on bass , Mach Rabbit on drums , and Vector the Crocodile on keyboard . The playable Vector became a recurring character in the series , also appearing in Knuckles ' Chaotix , Sonic Heroes , and Sonic Free Riders . The development schedule scrapped the feature , and Yuji Naka replaced the test with the " Se @-@ ga ! " chant used in TV commercials ( which reportedly used one @-@ eighth of the memory of the four @-@ megabit cartridge ) . 

 On October 19 , 2011 , twenty years after the game 's release , a three @-@ disc compilation of music from Sonic the Hedgehog and Sonic the Hedgehog 2 was released in Japan . The first disc features original tracks from both games , the second contains Masato Nakamura 's demo recordings and the third comprises songs by Dreams Come True and their Akon remixes . 


 = = = Packaging and release = = = 


 Game @-@ package illustrator Akira Watanabe said that his goal was to make the characters " colorful " , using clear lines and gradation to " finish them neatly " . According to Watanabe , the developers asked him to create a package design " similar to pop art ... without being particular to conventional packages " – something " original " and " stylish " . The game was released in North America , Europe , and Australia on June 23 , 1991 , and in Japan on July 26 . Sega of America packaged it with American Genesis consoles , replacing Altered Beast . Genesis owners who bought their consoles before the switch could request free copies of Sonic the Hedgehog by mail . Sega of America created a large @-@ scale marketing campaign to promote the game and Sonic as a mascot for the company . 


 = = Alternate versions and ports = = 



 = = = 8 @-@ bit version = = = 


 A version of Sonic the Hedgehog was developed by Ancient and released in 1991 for Sega 's 8 @-@ bit consoles , the Master System and Game Gear . Its plot and gameplay mechanics are similar to the 16 @-@ bit version , with different level themes and digital assets . The level design is flatter , with no vertical loops , and Sonic cannot re @-@ collect his rings after being hit . The game has a different soundtrack , composed by chiptune musician Yuzo Koshiro and including his compositions and adaptations of music from the 16 @-@ bit version . It was the final game released for the Master System in North America . The Master System version was re @-@ released for Wii 's Virtual Console service in North America on August 4 , 2008 , and in Europe on August 8 . The Game Gear version was re @-@ released for the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console on June 13 , 2013 , and included as an unlockable game in Sonic Adventure DX : Director 's Cut for GameCube and Windows and Sonic Mega Collection Plus for PlayStation 2 , Xbox , and Windows . 


 = = = Sonic the Hedgehog Genesis = = = 


 A port , Sonic the Hedgehog Genesis , was released for the Game Boy Advance ( GBA ) on November 14 , 2006 in United States to mark the game 's fifteenth anniversary . It included several new features , such as the ability to save game progress , a level select option , and an Anniversary Mode with the Spin Dash move ( not originally implemented until Sonic the Hedgehog 2 ) . Its screen is slightly zoomed in , and adapted to the GBA 's widescreen aspect ratio . The game received poor reviews , with a Metacritic score of 33 percent ; the chief complaints concerned its poor conversion to the Game Boy Advance ( resulting in a slow frame rate ) , remixed chunky music , and poor preservation of the original gameplay . 


 = = = Compilation releases = = = 


 With its sequels for the Genesis , Sonic the Hedgehog has been ported for a wide range of home and handheld consoles and personal computers . It has appeared in Sonic Compilation ( 1995 ) for the Genesis , Sonic Jam ( 1997 ) for the Sega Saturn and Game.com , Sonic Mega Collection ( 2002 ) , Sonic Mega Collection Plus ( 2004 ) , Sonic 's Ultimate Genesis Collection ( 2009 ) for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 , and Sonic Classic Collection ( 2010 ) for the Nintendo DS . Additionally , the game is an unlockable reward in the console versions of Sonic Generations . 


 = = = Downloadable releases = = = 


 Sonic the Hedgehog has been available for all three major seventh @-@ generation video game consoles . It was part of the Wii Virtual Console at the service 's 2006 introduction , and was released for the Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network shortly afterwards . The game was released for the iPod Classic , iPod video , and video @-@ capable iPod Nano models in 2007 and for Apple 's iOS service ( compatible iPhone and iPod touch models ) in April 2009 . Sonic the Hedgehog became available on GameTap in September 2009 . In October 2010 , it was released as a Microsoft Windows download which was ported to Steam . The game was ported to two online app services ( Google Play and the Amazon Appstore ) in December 2012 . A remastered mobile port , created using Christian Whitehead 's Retro Engine previously used in the 2011 rerelease of Sonic CD , was released on iOS , replacing the original port , on May 15 , 2013 with an Android version released the following day . The port features widescreen graphics , the optional ability to spin dash , a time attack mode , and the unlockable option to play as Tails or Knuckles the Echidna . The game was also released as part of the Nintendo 3DS 3D Classics line in May 2013 in Japan , and worldwide in December . 


 = = Reception = = 


 Sonic the Hedgehog was critically praised at its release and in retrospective reviews , with an 86 @-@ percent approval rating at the review aggregator GameRankings based on nine reviews . The game rivaled the Mario series , particularly Super Mario World ( which was recently released for Genesis rival Super Nintendo Entertainment System ) . Paul Rand of Computer and Video Games compared the two in depth and characterized Sonic the Hedgehog as being faster , with brighter colors , and Super Mario World as having more " depth of play " . 

 Reviewers noted the game 's colorful , detailed graphics . Rand called its color scheme " lively , but never garish " , praising the interaction of color with detail in the sprites , backgrounds , and animations and describing its graphics as the best available for the Genesis . Reviewer Boogie Man of GamePro called the intricate backgrounds " eye @-@ popping " and " gorgeous " , which was echoed by Mean Machines . According to the Lessers ( Hartley , Patricia , and Kirk ) of Dragon , " The graphics and animation in Sonic the Hedgehog make this a serious contender for the best video game of the year " and GameZone called the animation " some of the smoothest and fastest ... ever seen " . The music and sound effects were also well received ; Dragon called them " great " , and GameZone " amazing " . Rand noted " stacks of catchy tunes and jingles " , calling some of the sound effects " absolutely brilliant " . Although Mean Machines called the songs " vaguely appealing " , the game 's sound effects were better appreciated . 

 Critics cited the fast gameplay , unprecedented in platformers . GamePro 's Boogie Man noted its " lightning @-@ fast action " and , according to Electronic Gaming Monthly ( EGM ) , " If you thought the Enterprise was quick , wait till you see Sonic at warp speed . " The game 's difficulty was disputed , described as " impossible " by Rand and " average " by EGM . Rand said about the gameplay in general that it " plays like a dream " ; according to GameZone it would enchant players for hours , and Boogie Man praised Sonic Team 's ability to provide an engaging experience primarily from running and jumping . Although EGM , Dragon , and Paul of Mean Machines praised the level design ( especially the hidden rooms ) , Paul found losing all of one 's rings frustrating . 

 Sonic the Hedgehog has maintained its popularity , appearing on lists of the greatest video games of all time . Frank Provo of GameSpot described the game as " one of the best platformers of all time " , noting that despite technical issues in the Game Boy Advance port " after all these years , the underlying graphics , audio , and gameplay still hold up " . Lucas M. Thomas of IGN agreed that it stood the test of time : " You 'll be impressed by the clarity and color that come through ... Few people realize how difficult it was to create Sonic 's graphics engine , which allowed for the incredible rate of speed the game 's known for . But the technical achievement impressed back in ' 91 , and still does so today . " Mega ranked the game its third @-@ favorite Genesis title , and in 2001 Game Informer called it the 24th @-@ greatest game of all time . Sonic the Hedgehog has been a commercial success ; the original Genesis version sold over 15 million copies by February 2009 , and the mobile version had eight million paid downloads by 2008 . 


 = = Legacy = = 



 = = = Effect on the industry = = = 


 Primarily because of its Genesis bundling , Sonic the Hedgehog contributed to the console 's North American popularity . During October – December 1991 , the Genesis outsold the Super NES by a two @-@ to @-@ one ratio , and at its January 1992 peak claimed 65 percent of the market for 16 @-@ bit consoles . Although Nintendo eventually again overtook Sega , this was the first time since December 1985 that the company did not lead the console market . 

 Sonic the Hedgehog added speed and momentum @-@ based physics to the standard platform formula . Set @-@ pieces and mechanics introduced by the game ( such as loops , springs , and acceleration pads ) have appeared in other games and become associated with the Sonic series . 

 A flood of " animal with attitude " platformers , each featuring a cartoon mascot , were released after Sonic the Hedgehog : Bubsy , Aero the Acro @-@ Bat , James Pond 3 , Earthworm Jim , Zero the Kamikaze Squirrel , Awesome Possum , Ty the Tasmanian Tiger , Gex . This carried into the PlayStation era with games like Punky Skunk and Crash Bandicoot . 


 = = = Sequels and other media = = = 


 The game 's success led Sega to develop an extensive media franchise . A 1992 sequel , Sonic the Hedgehog 2 , gave Sonic a best friend ( and sidekick ) named Miles " Tails " Prower and continued the fight against Dr. Robotnik . Sonic has generated dozens of additional games and a large cast of recurring characters ( keeping Sonic and Robotnik as mainstays ) , surviving the end of Sega console manufacturing after the Dreamcast . The series has ventured from platformers to fighting , racing , role @-@ playing , and sports games , and has expanded into anime and manga , cartoons and comic books , novels , and toys . Sonic the Hedgehog has become one of the best @-@ selling video game franchises of all time , with over 150 million copies sold by May 2014 . The game 's first stage , Green Hill Zone , has also been re @-@ purposed for use in several other titles such as Sonic Adventure 2 , Sonic Generations and the Super Smash Bros. series . 



 = The Same Old Story = 


 " The Same Old Story " is the second episode of the first season of the American science fiction drama television series Fringe . The episode was written by executive producer Jeff Pinkner and co @-@ creators J. J. Abrams , Alex Kurtzman , and Roberto Orci . When developing the series , they sought to find a medium between serialized drama and the crime procedural . " The Same Old Story " was the first regular episode of Fringe , and journalists viewed it as an example of what they could expect from the series . It was directed by Paul A. Edwards . 

 After a newborn baby rapidly ages into an 80 @-@ year @-@ old man , Fringe division agent Olivia Dunham ( Anna Torv ) and consultants Peter ( Joshua Jackson ) and Walter Bishop ( John Noble ) investigate . They tie the case to the murders of young women , who have all had their pituitary glands removed . It is revealed that Dr. Claus Penrose ( Mark Blum ) , an expert in progeria , is working to help his son Christopher ( Derek Cecil ) stay alive , as he suffers from rapid aging syndrome . 

 " The Same Old Story " first aired in the United States on September 16 , 2008 on Fox . An estimated 13 @.@ 272 million viewers watched the episode , a 45 percent increase from the series premiere . The episode received mixed reviews from television critics – reviewers thought it was an improvement from the previous episode but faulted it for containing plot contrivances . 


 = = Plot = = 


 A prostitute is abandoned by an unknown man at a hospital , dangerously in labor . She dies as the doctors perform a caesarean section , but the child ages rapidly in minutes , soon dead having aged to the likes of an 80 @-@ year @-@ old man . Olivia Dunham ( Anna Torv ) , Peter Bishop ( Joshua Jackson ) , and Walter Bishop ( John Noble ) , new members of the Fringe division , are called to investigate by division head Phillip Broyles ( Lance Reddick ) , believing the case to be part of " The Pattern " , a string of mysterious incidents . The woman is identified as having recently left a local motel , and Olivia finds evidence that points to a past serial murder case she and her former partner John Scott were not able to solve . Olivia explains to Peter that their murderer would paralyze his victims , young women , then make an incision along their face to extract a piece of brain material , killing the victim in the process . Walter takes both corpses back to his lab and determines that the woman had only been pregnant minutes before giving birth , her child having accelerated aging disease . Walter is reminded of having previously done work in this field , and remembers where he stashed his car that contains the related files . Once they are retrieved , Olivia makes a connection to the pituitary gland which controls growth in humans , and informs Charlie Francis ( Kirk Acevedo ) to monitor recent cases where the victims ' pituitary gland has been removed . 

 Olivia and Peter turn to an expert in progeria , Dr. Penrose ( Mark Blum ) , to trying to learn more about rapid aging , but Dr. Penrose cannot help them further , though Peter suspects he is hiding something . Unseen by the Fringe division , Dr. Penrose visits an abandoned warehouse and meets the murderer , Christopher ( Derek Cecil ) , his son , who suffers from rapid aging syndrome . Penrose warns Christopher to be careful and that they only need one more woman to complete the process . By this time , Charlie has found a recent murder victim killed in the same fashion as Olivia 's serial murderer . At Walter 's lab , they identify the pituitary gland has been removed . They rationalize the murderer must extract hormones from the glands to slow down his own aging process . Walter hypothesizes they can discover the location of the crime by looking at the images left in the woman 's optical nerves induced by the paralyzing sedative . Borrowing an electronic pulse camera from Massive Dynamic , they discover the image of a suspension bridge near Stoughton and identify the likely location from which it was viewed — the same warehouse that Dr. Penrose visited . The FBI converge on the building , and Olivia and Peter find Penrose about to cut into another victim . Olivia chases off after Christopher , who eventually succumbs to his rapid aging and dies , while Peter , after nicking Penrose with a bullet , confers with Walter to apply a makeshift defibrillator to bring the victim back to life . 

 As they wrap up the case , Olivia , Peter , and Walter complete forms to finalize their position in the Fringe division . When Peter is out of earshot , Walter learns from Olivia that the FBI medical files on Peter 's childhood are void of any details . 


 = = Production = = 


 Co @-@ creators J. J. Abrams , Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci , and executive producer Jeff Pinkner wrote the episode . Paul A. Edwards served as the director , his first such credit for the series . In developing Fringe , the co @-@ creators did not want to make the series too serialized , as this was a complaint often directed at Abrams ' television series Alias . They wanted to find a balance between standalone stories and serialized content , and studied procedural dramas such as Law and Order and CSI : Crime Scene Investigation for inspiration . Kurztman explained , " While we make sure that our episodes are self @-@ contained – have a beginning , a middle , and an end – the character stories can be serialized . They don 't have to resolve themselves over the course of one show . " " The Same Old Story " was Fringe 's first regular episode , and some journalists viewed it as an example of how the series would be structured . 

 The episode was based on actual recent research and involved much collaboration among the series ' different departments . For the scene in which they remove the victim 's eyeball , the special effects crew created a mold based on actress Elizabeth Stanley 's head . Using plaster to make a prosthetic , they " drilled out the eyeball and sculpt [ ed ] it open and [ went ] through a series of molds . " Stanley stated that " it 's really cool to see the head because it really does look just like me , even though it 's very gruesome because the eyeball 's popping out . " The prop department rigged a weapon which they called a " photon gun " ; according to prop master Peter Gelfman , this gun was based on real devices employed in airport security that look through people 's clothing for concealed weapons . VFX Supervisor Christopher Scollard explained that for the eye 's last vision , they used " a lot of actual photographic reference on the set and on the location , " which they then used to " take that imagery and composite it into the various computer monitors and displays in the lab . " 

 " The Same Old Story " featured guest appearances by actors Derek Cecil as Christopher Penrose and Mark Blum as his father , Dr. Claus Penrose . Other guest actors included Betty Gilpin as Loraine " Amber " Daisy Alcott , Bernie McInerney as old Christopher Penrose , Carmen Goodine as Amy , Ty Jones as a doctor , and Karin Agstam as John Scott 's sister . 


 = = Reception = = 



 = = = Ratings = = = 


 " The Same Old Story " was watched by 13 @.@ 272 million viewers in the United States , a 45 percent increase of four million from the pilot . Fox claimed that this ratings improvement was the best for any new network drama series in over five years . Its high @-@ rated lead @-@ in , House , helped boost Fringe 's ratings for the night , as 93 percent of House 's total audience and 95 percent of 18- to 49 @-@ year @-@ olds stayed to watch Fringe . Fringe was also the highest rated program for male 18- to 54 @-@ year @-@ olds that evening . 


 = = = Reviews = = = 


 " The Same Old Story " received mixed reviews from television critics . TV Squad writer Jane Boursaw thought the episode seemed " all over the place " , and wasn 't sure what to think . She stated the two most interesting parts of the episode were when Walter removed the girl 's eye in order to identity her killer , and the cliffhanger at the very end , when Walter states " If you 've read my file , then you know the truth about Peter 's medical history " . Travis Fickett of IGN thought it was better than the pilot ; though it was " laden with lots of clunky exposition and clichéd dialogue , " Fickett understood that it was needed to acquaint new viewers to the show . Fickett concluded his review by saying Fringe has the potential to be a " great show " , and he also praised the production level as " top notch " , and Torv 's performance as " very good " as she " brings a unique presence to the show " . The A.V. Club critic Noel Murray gave the episode a C + , while Television Without Pity graded it with a B. 

 Josh Jackson of Paste Magazine disliked the " deus ex machina " aspects that " neatly solved the puzzles of the first two episodes " , and also criticized perceived " plot contrivances " like how the serial murderer immediately began aging once interrupted from killing his last victim . Despite these flaws , Jackson said he would tune in next week because he would " rather have a show err on the side of unbelievable than unremarkable , and I 'm interested to see if Abrams has any more tricks up his sleeve " . Erin Fox of TV Guide also liked " The Same Old Story " better than the pilot because she thought that it " had really cool special effects , awesome Walter @-@ isms , and actual chemistry forming between Olivia and Peter " , and " we also got to delve more into the connections between Walter , Nina Sharp , Massive Dynamic and the government and the experiments they conducted before Walter was institutionalized " . 

 A UGO Networks columnist was concerned that the expensive pilot would be hard to translate into weekly episodes , but " after sitting down to watch Fringe 's second episode , " The Same Old Story " , my concerns have vanished . Fringe 's second episode represents all that is holy about genre programming without sacrificing any of Fringe 's eleven @-@ herbs and spices . In fact , the subtle framework of what makes Fringe not X @-@ Files is even better defined in the first weekly @-@ episode . I 'd struggled to find the word to describe it , and the winner is ' condensed ' . " The Same Old Story " has all of the sense of mystery , discovery , and humor that the pilot had just in a smaller , more combustible space . " Another UGO writer , Alex Zalben , later compared " The Same Old Story " to the similarly @-@ plotted The X @-@ Files episode " Død Kalm " . Zalben concluded that " Fringe wins this one , just for having a slightly less stupid explanation . " 



 = Randy Blythe manslaughter case = 


 The Randy Blythe manslaughter case was a court case in the Czech Republic , stemming from a 2010 Lamb of God concert in Prague , wherein 19 @-@ year @-@ old fan Daniel Nosek sustained head injuries leading to a coma and subsequent death . During the investigation , Czech police unsuccessfully asked United States authorities for cooperation . When the band returned to the Czech Republic for another concert two years later , its vocalist Randy Blythe was arrested , charged with causing Nosek 's death , and remanded in custody for five weeks . 

 According to a verdict delivered by the Municipal Court in Prague on March 5 , 2013 , it was proven that Blythe had thrown Nosek offstage and thus had moral responsibility for his death . However , due to the circumstances , Blythe was not held criminally liable , and most of the blame lay with promoters and security members . The acquittal was upheld by the Prague High Court on June 5 , 2013 . 


 = = 2010 concert incident = = 


 During a concert on May 24 , 2010 , in the Prague club , Abaton , Blythe was involved in an incident that resulted in the death of Daniel Nosek , a 19 @-@ year @-@ old attending fan . According to eyewitness statements cited by the Czech online daily newspaper aktuálně.cz following Blythe 's arrest , Blythe was chanting " Come on up " between songs , which , the newspaper stated , may have been intended to invite applause from the audience and not a direct invitation to fans . The newspaper went on to report that the fan tried to climb onstage and was thrown by the singer from the stage , falling backwards directly on his head . According to the same paper , Nosek was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol , suffered serious brain trauma , fell into a coma , and died weeks later from his injuries . 

 A report about the concert at issue released on May 26 , 2010 by topzine.cz stated that " one of the things that was unexpected was the behavior of the singer Randall Blythe , who on a few occasions struck some fans in a relatively brutal way off the stage . " The article also contains pictures , one of them showing Blythe holding a fan down on the ground . Meanwhile , another report released two days after the concert by metalopolis.net alleged that " Randy in a totally uncompromising way took down an impertinent fan , who has climbed the podium several times . The front @-@ man clearly showed that it is his territory , he struck the intruder down , punched him a couple of times and sent him through the air off the podium , without even stopping singing ( ! ) " On May 28 , 2010 , the report by marastmusic.com stated that " some broken head was a testimony to the fact that the band does not like anybody on the stage " , while abysszine.com stated that " the only negative thing about the concert was , to say it mildly , disputable approach of the band towards the stage @-@ divers ... when somebody tried to climb the stage , he was brutally swept down . " 

 Following Blythe 's arrest , Tomáš Fiala , a promoter of the concert , said that there was no fight between the fan and Blythe , and that " it was an unfortunate incident which happened during the concert when someone climbed onto the stage where he was not supposed to be . " According to the Lamb of God publicist Adrenaline PR , " [ the ] incident deals with a fan that three times during the concert jumped the barricade and rushed Randy during the performance . It is alleged that the third time , security was not able to reach him and that Randy pushed him back into the audience where supposedly he fell and hit his head . " However , it was revealed during the trial that it was a different fan who previously got into contact with Blythe than Nosek . Guitarist Willie Adler said , " I can 't recall that particular show , let alone a fan being beaten on the stage . I think I would 've noticed something like that considering the Dime thing . " 

 According to Blythe 's attorney Martin Radvan , the police launched an investigation following the death of Nosek , about a month after the concert and following a coma . After interviewing several eyewitnesses from the concert , the police asked the United States Department of Justice to take part in the investigation ; however , they refused to cooperate and , moreover , did not notify anyone from Lamb of God or its management . 


 = = Arrest and charges = = 


 On June 27 , 2012 , Blythe was arrested by the Czech police on suspicion of manslaughter . Lamb of God was prepared to play in Prague on June 28 , 2012 , but Blythe 's arrest upon arrival at Ruzyně Airport caused the concert to be canceled . 

 According to TV Nova , Blythe stated that he had not been aware of Nosek 's death and expressed his remorse . 

 A police spokesperson stated on June 29 , 2012 that the police had formally charged Blythe under section 146 ( 4 ) of the Czech Criminal Code , which contains intentional infliction of bodily harm resulting in death ( i.e. manslaughter ) . He faced 5 – 10 years of imprisonment if found guilty . Randy 's brother Mark Blythe said the charge was " bogus and outrageous and will be dropped immediately . " 


 = = Court remand and bail = = 


 On June 30 , 2012 , the State Attorney brought a motion to remand Blythe in pre @-@ trial detention , as he considered Blythe a flight risk . During a hearing conducted the same day , judge Petr Fassati of the Prague 8 District Court ruled that Blythe will be held on remand , with the possibility of a bail of CZK 4 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 ( ~ US $ 200 @,@ 000 ) , Blythe 's alleged annual income ; Blythe was held in Pankrác Prison . Bail was deposited in the court 's bank account on mid @-@ day of July 3 , 2012 . After this , the State Attorney had three working days to either accept the bail or to challenge it by filing a complaint . Due to public holidays it was not until July 9 , 2012 , that the State Attorney filed his complaint , which was to be dealt with by appellate court , the Prague Municipal Court . 

 On July 17 , 2012 , Prague Municipal Court 's panel of three judges headed by judge Luboš Vrba overturned the bail decision by doubling the bail amount to CZK 8 million ( ~ US $ 400 @,@ 000 ) . After this , the State Attorney challenged the conditions of release , trying to achieve that the bail is subject to Blythe staying in the country and / or Blythe having to report at a given police station regularly until the criminal proceedings are finished . On August 2 , 2012 , the appellate court rejected the State Attorney 's second complaint and ordered Blythe 's immediate release . Blythe left the Czech Republic the next day , claiming in an interview with TV Nova that he would return for the trial . 


 = = Indictment and trial = = 


 On November 13 , 2012 , the spokesperson of the Prague State Attorney 's Office announced that the police had formally closed their investigation and proposed to the State Attorney to indict Blythe . After reviewing the case file , the State Attorney indicted Blythe on the aforementioned charges on November 30 , 2012 . Two weeks later , a judge set the trial to commence on February 4 , 2013 , with a plan to conduct the hearings in four consecutive days . Blythe was summoned to attend the hearing in person . 

 The case was heard by a panel of the Prague Municipal Court , consisting of presiding professional judge Tomáš Kubovec and two lay judges . Trials in the Czech Republic are public . In general , the court is bound to decide on the deed as stated in the indictment ; however , it is not bound by its legal assessment by the State Attorney . 

 Both the defendant and the State Attorney may appeal the decision ; the appeal would be heard by a panel of the Prague High Court , consisting of three professional judges . A decision of second instance court is final and enforceable . Nevertheless , an extraordinary appeal may be lodged by the defendant or the Supreme State Attorney , which would be heard by the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic in Brno ; an extraordinary appeal may , however , rest only on issues of law and does not provide for full review of the case . After exhausting all of these remedies , the defendant may also lodge a petition to the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic . The petition may be based on allegation of violation of rights under the Czech Constitution and Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms . 


 = = = State Attorney Vladimír Mužík = = = 


 Indictment against Blythe was brought by State Attorney Vladimír Mužík . Mužík had tried a number of murderers , such as Luboš Mika ( life in prison ) , Roman Fidler ( life imprisonment at 1st instance , 25 years on appeal ) , Maria Zolotukinová ( 13 years imprisonment ) and Petr Procházka ( 11 years imprisonment ) . He also tried a case against Andranik Soghojan , an alleged head of Russian mafia , requesting 25 years in prison for ordering a murder . The Municipal Court in Prague acquitted Soghojan due to lack of evidence ; however , the decision was repealed on appeal by the High Court , and the case will be heard again by a different tribunal of the Municipal Court . Another of Mužík 's murder cases which ended in acquittal due to insufficient evidence is that of Miroslav Rus , who was indicted in connection with disappearance of Miroslav Kříž , a vice @-@ chairman of the Czech Football Association . 


 = = = Defense lawyers = = = 


 Randy Blythe was represented by Prague lawyers Martin Radvan and Vladimír Jablonský . Radvan studied law at the Faculty of Law of Charles University and at the New York University . From 1990 to 1992 , he served as external advisor of the then Prime Minister Marián Čalfa . A former partner at Baker & McKenzie , Radvan established Radvan & Co. in 1996 . He is also a member of board of directors of Forum 2000 . 

 Jablonský gained fame as attorney of Yekta Uzunoglu , a Kurdish national who was first charged in 1994 with preparing to commit three murders and committing blackmail and torture . It became one of the longest criminal cases in the Czech history , as the witnesses and alleged victims gradually withdrew or changed their testimonies against Uzunoglu until he was exonerated by the Municipal Court in Prague in 2007 . The court held that although the crimes did take place , there is no evidence that Uzunoglu took part in it . He was also defending judge Pavel Nagy , who was indicted of accepting a bribe . The proceedings ended with Nagy being found insane and criminally not liable . Jablonský also acted as a defense attorney in the case of a hairdresser of Czech VIPs indicted on charges of rape and torture . During the proceedings , the judge sent Jablonský to face the disciplinary commission of the Czech bar association for what he perceived as " behaviour bordering on contempt " . 


 = = = Day 1 of the trial = = = 


 The trial started on February 4 , 2013 . Blythe testified that when he wanted to see the club before the concert , Lamb of God 's technician told him that the club was terrible and messy . According to Blythe , the technician went on , saying that the stage was small , there were too many people , and that it was rather dangerous . 

 Blythe , who is nearsighted , took off his glasses before entering the stage , which together with the smoke and light effects allegedly left him half @-@ blind . Blythe said that people could easily reach the band members or climb up to the stage . One of the fans , who was identified as Milan Pořádek by Czech newspapers , and who was scheduled to testify later during the proceedings , managed to climb the stage twice without being stopped by security . Blythe testified that during the first attempt , Pořádek rushed the stage and started waving his arms before stage diving . The second time , he tried to put his arms around Blythe in an attempt to hug him . Blythe , who according to his own words perceived this as a danger , caught Pořádek 's collar , pushed him on the ground , knelt on him and repeatedly told him to stop . He then led the fan by his hair to the edge of the stage , where the fan jumped off . It was only after watching a video of the incident that Blythe found out that a security officer was actually pushing the fan from back . Blythe further said that he saw Pořádek trying to reach the stage yet again before finally being stopped by security . 

 Later , when another fan tried to climb the stage , Blythe thought that it was Pořádek again . Blythe testified that he approached the fan and pushed him with both hands out of the stage in the belief that the crowd would catch him , which it did not . Jiří Choroš , author of video which caught the previous incidents with Pořádek , testified that the fan was for a moment lying on the ground with nobody helping him . Blythe further commented that he saw the fan get up and that other fans showed him thumbs up . Blythe insisted that he never saw Nosek nor came into contact with him . It was not until the arrest two years later that he found out about Nosek 's death . 

 Blythe further testified that he was not under the influence of alcohol during the concert and that he had never used any drugs . Chris Adler , Lamb of God 's drummer , testified that he had not seen anything from the back of the stage and further proclaimed that Blythe 's aggressiveness is only a stage act . According to Adler , Blythe is a calm , moderate , and well @-@ read person . The defense also presented videos from various Lamb of God concerts in order to demonstrate that metal music is very energetic and that Blythe regularly cheers to the crowd , but not to encourage people to climb the stage . 

 Blythe also alleged that after learning about Nosek 's death , he had written a letter to the Nosek family , in which he offered help and a meeting in @-@ person . Daniel Nosek 's father , however , testified that the family has not been contacted by anyone from the band nor by the defense team . Nosek 's father confirmed that his son had been healthy up until the day of the incident . The Nosek family 's representative brought a claim for damages in the amount of CZK 10 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 ( approx . US $ 530 @,@ 000 ) . 


 = = = Day 2 of the trial = = = 


 Altogether , eight witnesses delivered their testimonies on February 5 , 2013 . Among them were friends of Daniel Nosek . Nosek and three friends had come to attend the concert from Vrchlabí , a town in mountains some 130 kilometres ( 81 mi ) northwest of Prague . They described Nosek as a huge fan of Lamb of God who had been able to secure an autograph from a guitar player before the concert had started . 

 Nosek 's friend Jan Jebavý testified that Nosek climbed the stage , and as he turned around towards the crowd he was pushed by Blythe off the stage . He said he was " 100 % sure Blythe pushed Nosek with both hands . " He further said that Blythe 's behavior deviated from all the concerts he had attended in the past , commenting that Blythe was visibly furious . He further claimed that Nosek was not the first person to be chased off the stage by Blythe , with another fan being kicked , choked and receiving a punch from Blythe . Jebavý corroborated Blythe 's testimony that Blythe asked " Are you okay ? " after Nosek fell and that the crowd gave him a positive reply . However , as Nosek fell sick after the concert , they called him an ambulance . According to Jebavý , the band had not warned the fans against getting on stage and the security guards did not pay much attention to it . 

 Nosek 's other friend Ondřej Vlach testified that Nosek 's fall happened in a break between the end of concert and the encore . Nosek climbed the stage together with another fan as the band members were leaving to go backstage . According to him , Blythe ran into the two fans and pushed them both off . While the other fan was caught by a couple of fans remaining under the stage , Nosek fell directly on the ground . According to Vlach , there were fewer fans in front of the stage due to the break . Vlach further testified that after the fall , Nosek went to sit on a bench , where he was fetched a water bottle . Nosek began vomiting about half an hour after the fall and as his friends realized that he had a bulge at the back of his head , they called an ambulance for fear he might have a concussion . Vlach said that he understood Blythe 's gesture in the break as an invitation to the stage . 

 Another person to testify was Robert Havelka , who worked as a security guard the night of the incident . Havelka said that the guardrail was too close to the stage , but not so close as to make a platform for climbing the stage . He testified that he pulled one person off the stage and that another person fell off before he could be secured . He further said that the fan 's fall might have been helped by someone else , perhaps the singer , though he did not see it precisely . 

 Blythe 's defense team attacked differences between the testimonies the witnesses gave after the incident in 2010 and at the court . Among other things , one of the witnesses originally alleged that Nosek and Blythe shook hands or that one of them offered hand to another on stage ; however , at the court hearing , he testified that there was no prior contact between them . Blythe also argued that video evidence shown in court refuted claims about his aggressive behavior . 


 = = = Day 3 of the trial = = = 


 Milan Pořádek , the fan whom Blythe admitted to shoving off the stage , testified on the third day of the trial . Pořádek said he climbed the stage twice in order to stage dive ; he changed his mind during the third attempt to get on stage . Pořádek testified that Blythe knocked him down , knelt on him and held him down for a moment , but Blythe definitely did not choke him . He also admitted that taking into account the fact that he ( Pořádek ) was drunk and the way he acted , Blythe 's reaction was adequate . He commented that he grasped the fact that he was not wanted on stage . 

 Another witness who had attended the concert at the rear of the crowd testified that Blythe 's behavior was standard to metal concerts , saying that metal bands always put on angry and tough acts and the concert at issue was no exception . She said that it was evident that Blythe did not want any fans on the stage . Neither the two nor any other witness who took the stand that day gave a testimony as to the moment of Nosek 's fall at the end of the concert . 

 The judge also read a sworn statement from Abaton 's former producer , who stated that she had not known about the incident . She was aware that an ambulance was called that evening , but learned about the reasons for that only later , during the police investigation . The court further heard that Lamb of God had sent a list of security demands to the concert venue , including that barriers should be placed 1 @.@ 5 metres ( 4 @.@ 9 ft ) from the stage . Promoter Tomáš Fiala testified that although this was not the case , the band had not expressed any concerns to him either before or after the concert . 

 Randy Blythe was called again to the stand that day . The judge first alerted him that he had the right to remain silent and can deny answering his questions . The judge went again through the Blythe 's testimony and , with a view to the previous witness statements , asked Blythe whether he insists that it was Milan Pořádek whom Blythe threw off the stage . Blythe responded by saying : " To the best of my knowledge , it was Milan Pořádek who was coming up [ on stage ] every time . " 

 Also that day , expert medical witness Michal Pogoši took the stand . According to The Prague Post , Pogoši testified that Nosek 's cause of death was pneumonia resulting from a blow to the brainstem . Pogoši added that the " mortality rate from this kind of injury is around 40 percent , and that doctors couldn 't have done more to save the patient . " Nosek was initially taken to a nearby hospital less than a kilometer from the venue , where the initial diagnosis took place . Since this hospital did not have a specialized neurology department , Nosek was transferred to another hospital after the diagnosis . There , Nosek underwent two operations , first to tend to the injury and second to reduce pressure on brain by removing some bone . 

 Finally , defense asked for adjournment as a key witness fell ill . The court decided to continue with the hearings the next day , after which the hearings would be adjourned until March 4 , 2013 , in order to hear the defense 's witness . Blythe committed to return when the trial resumed . 


 = = = Day 4 of the trial = = = 


 On February 7 , 2013 , only one witness took the stand before the hearing was adjourned . Lukáš Havlena contacted the defense after reading about the trial in newspapers because he " didn 't like the description of the situation " by the previous witnesses . He said he did not think Blythe was aggressive that night , and that fans should realize any aggressive behavior displayed onstage is just part of the show . He also said that each time somebody got on the stage , Blythe demonstrated that they were not allowed there . Havlena testified that he saw how a fan tried to reach the stage three times and that as he was preparing to stage dive , somebody aided his fall from behind . He had not seen anybody fall directly on the ground . Havlena had trouble recalling details from the show , as he had visited multiple concerts on other dates in Abaton , and thus could not describe , among other things , the position of the guardrail . 


 = = = Day 5 of the trial = = = 


 The trial resumed on March 4 , 2013 with testimonies from expert witnesses in the fields of criminal psychology ( Tereza Soukupová , appointed by the court ) and psychiatry ( Alena Gayová , appointed by the defense ) . Blythe returned to attend the hearings in person , even though the presiding judge had told him that at this point they may be undertaken in his absence . The two expert witnesses agreed that Blythe is not aggressive ; nevertheless , he may have issues with controlling his emotions under stress . The court further heard testimonies from two eyewitnesses . One of them was a bodyguard who was present at the concert but did not see the fall . He testified that when by the exit , he saw two men taking a third man out of the building to fresh air . He said that he was told by them that the person fell off the stage . The ambulance arrived 5 – 10 minutes later . 

 Another eyewitness was a fan , Alena Rozsívalová , who testified that she saw Blythe shove Nosek , saying " [ h ] e climbed onto the stage , and when he tried to stand up , Blythe shoved him . " According to her , the shove was strong enough for Nosek to fall behind the front row of the fans into a place where no fans were staying at the moment . She testified that Nosek fell backwards . Another attendee of the concert who took the stand that day did not recall seeing any fall by the end of the concert . 


 = = = Day 6 of the trial = = = 


 A defense @-@ appointed expert witness in the field of biomechanics testified on March 5 that Nosek could not turn 180 degrees during the fall and that should he be falling forward , he could not have sustained an injury to the back of his head . He further said that if Nosek fell over the first row of the fans , he must have been not only pushed , but must have jumped himself . The State Attorney immediately attacked this testimony , claiming that the expert witness omitted the conditions at the place and time , as well as some of the eyewitness testimonies , according to which Nosek fell onto his back from the beginning and did not turn during the fall . The presiding judge agreed with the State Attorney on some of his points . 

 In his closing speech , the State Attorney asked the court to incarcerate Blythe for 5 years , claiming that " even children in the kindergarten are aware that a fall from height may lead to an injury . " 

 A Nosek family representative said that based on the witness testimonies , the family did not believe that Blythe was solely responsible . He continued that he would not be substantiating the requested amount , as no money could replace the loss the family has suffered . He further added that Daniel had died on his father 's birthday , and his mother has consequently become a psychiatry patient unable to work . 

 In his closing word , Blythe said that he did not wish to avoid any responsibility and that if he felt guilty he would have pleaded so . He further commented that in case of acquittal , measures would be undertaken to avoid anything similar from happening at Lamb of God concerts again . 


 = = = First instance verdict = = = 


 On March 5 , 2013 , the court delivered a verdict , according to which Blythe was not criminally liable for Nosek 's death , even though he had the moral responsibility for it . Consequently , the court dismissed the damages claim and ordered the return of Blythe 's bail . 

 The court held that it was proven that Blythe had thrown Nosek off the stage . However , Blythe , due to his nearsightedness , could have mistaken Nosek for the other fan who had repeatedly gotten over the guardrail . According to the court , the largest part of the blame lies with the promoters and security members . Judge Kubovec further reproached Blythe for not having met with the Nosek family . 

 The State Attorney announced that he would appeal the verdict . 


 = = = Appeals verdict = = = 


 The State Attorney 's appeal was heard by a panel of three judges of the Prague High Court , chaired by judge Jiří Lněnička . The hearing took place in Blythe 's absence . Blythe 's acquittal was upheld by the panel on June 5 , 2013 . 

 The verdict may have been appealed by the Supreme State Attorney ( SSA ) to the Supreme Court . As the appeal hasn 't been lodged by SSA within two months of the delivery of written second instance verdict , it has become final . 

 In 2015 Blythe demanded ca CZK 15 millions for damages but the Municipal Court for Prague 2 dismissed the suit . 


 = = Reaction = = 


 In reaction to the arrest and detention , a fan created a petition at the official White House petition site . By the time Blythe was released on bail , it gathered over 27 @,@ 500 signatures . 

 On July 7 , 2012 , there was a vigil organized in Lamb of God 's hometown of Richmond , Virginia , by a friend of Blythe 's . At the event , Gwar ( who are also from Richmond ) frontman Dave Brockie said : “ I don ’ t think it was right for him to be arrested . I don ’ t think it was right for him to be locked up .... This stuff could have all been worked out diplomatically or legally before he got there . ” In addition to Brockie , other notable figures in heavy metal , such as Tom Araya and David Draiman , have also come out in support of Blythe . 

 In a post to his blog , Blythe explained that he met the Nosek family in private after the trial , and promised them to be " a spokesperson for safer shows " . He emphasized that the family never attacked him and " just wanted to know the truth of what had happened to their son " . 



 = U.S. Route 2 in Michigan = 


 US Highway 2 ( US 2 ) is a component of the United States Numbered Highway System that connects Everett , Washington , to the Upper Peninsula ( UP ) of the US state of Michigan , with a separate segment that runs from Rouses Point , New York , to Houlton , Maine . In Michigan , the highway runs through the UP in two segments as a part of the state trunkline highway system , entering the state at Ironwood and ending at St. Ignace ; in between , US 2 briefly traverses the state of Wisconsin . As one of the major transportation arteries in the UP , US 2 is a major conduit for traffic through the state and neighboring northern Midwest states . Two sections of the roadway are included as part of the Great Lakes Circle Tours , and other segments are listed as state @-@ designated Pure Michigan Byways . There are several memorial highway designations and historic bridges along US 2 that date to the 1910s and 1920s . The highway runs through rural sections of the UP , passing through two national and two state forests in the process . 

 The route of what became US 2 was used as part of two Indian trails before European settlers came to the UP , and as part of the Michigan segments of the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway and the King 's International Highway auto trails in the early 20th century . The state later included these trails as part of M ‑ 12 when the first state highway trunklines were designated in 1919 . Most of M ‑ 12 was redesignated as part of US 2 when the US Highway System was created on November 11 , 1926 . Since the 1930s , several changes have reshaped the highway 's routing through the UP . One such alteration eventually created a business loop that connected across the state line with Hurley , Wisconsin , and others pushed an originally inland routing of US 2 closer to the Lake Michigan shoreline . With the creation of the Interstate Highway System , part of US 2 was rerouted to coincide with the new Interstate 75 ( I ‑ 75 ) , though in the 1980s , the U.S. Highway was truncated and removed from the I ‑ 75 freeway , resulting in today 's basic form . 


 = = Route description = = 


 According to a 2006 regional planning committee report , US 2 is a key highway for Michigan , providing its main western gateway . The roadway plays " an important role in the transportation of goods across the northern tier of states in the Midwest " , and is listed on the National Highway System ( NHS ) for its entire length . The NHS is a network of roadways important to the country 's economy , defense , and mobility . Together with M ‑ 28 , US 2 is part of a pair of primary trunklines that bridge the eastern and western sides of the UP . The 305 @.@ 151 miles ( 491 @.@ 093 km ) of roadway in Michigan is divided into a 109 @.@ 177 @-@ mile ( 175 @.@ 703 km ) western segment and a 195 @.@ 974 @-@ mile ( 315 @.@ 390 km ) eastern segment , interrupted by a section that runs for 14 @.@ 460 miles ( 23 @.@ 271 km ) in the state of Wisconsin . 


 = = = Western segment = = = 


 US 2 enters Michigan from Wisconsin for the first time north of downtown Hurley , Wisconsin , and Ironwood , Michigan , over the state line that runs along the Montreal River . The highway crosses the river into Gogebic County and passes a welcome center on the way into a commercial district north of downtown . Running along Cloverland Drive , US 2 meets its only business route in Michigan at Douglas Boulevard . The business route was previously a full loop that ran west through downtown Ironwood and crossed the border into Hurley and back to the main highway . The Wisconsin Department of Transportation has removed the signage on their side of the border , which reduced the loop to a business spur that ends at the state line . US 2 continues eastward through UP woodlands to the city of Bessemer . While bypassing the community of Ramsay , the highway crosses a branch of the Black River . The roadway enters Wakefield on the south side of Sunday Lake , meeting M ‑ 28 at a stoplight in town . As the US Highway leaves Wakefield , it turns southeasterly through the Ottawa National Forest , crossing Jackson Creek and two branches of the Presque Isle River . US 2 and M ‑ 64 merge and run concurrently over the second branch of the Presque Isle in the community of Marenisco . This concurrency has the lowest traffic volume along the entire length of the highway within the state ; in 2010 the Michigan Department of Transportation ( MDOT ) recorded a daily average usage along the stretch of 770 vehicles , compared to the overall average of 5 @,@ 188 vehicles for the highway . At the end of the concurrency , M ‑ 64 turns northerly to run along Lake Gogebic . 

 The highway continues parallel to the state line from the Marensico area through the national forest toward Watersmeet . That unincorporated community is the home of the Watersmeet High School Nimrods , the basketball team featured on a series of ESPN commercials and a documentary series on the Sundance Channel . The area is also where the waters meet ; the rolling hills drain to Lake Superior via the Ontonagon River , to Lake Michigan via the Brule and Menominee rivers , or to the Gulf of Mexico via the Wisconsin and Mississippi rivers . Also located in the area are the Sylvania Wilderness , and the Lac Vieux Desert Indian Reservation , which includes the Lac Vieux Desert Casino and Resort . The highway travels southeasterly from Watersmeet around the many lakes and streams in the area and crosses into rural Iron County . US 2 intersects Federal Forest Highway 16 ( FFH 16 ) near Golden Lake in Stambaugh Township in the middle of the national forest . The trunkline then runs along the Iron River as it approaches the city of the same name and meets M ‑ 73 . In town , US 2 intersects M ‑ 189 before crossing the river and turning northeast out of the city . 

 US 2 leaves the Ottawa National Forest at Iron River , and the highway continues eastward through forest lands near several small lakes to Crystal Falls , the county seat of Iron County . On the west side of town , US 2 meets US 141 ; the two highways run concurrently along Crystal Avenue . The combined highway turns south onto 5th Street and meets M ‑ 69 's eastern terminus at the intersection between 5th Street and Superior Avenue next to the county courthouse at the top of the hill . US 2 / US 141 runs south out of Crystal Falls to the west of , and parallel to , the Paint River . The roadway passes Railroad , Kennedy and Stager lakes and leaves the state of Michigan at the Brule River , crossing into Florence County , Wisconsin for about 14 miles ( 23 km ) . 


 = = = Eastern segment = = = 


 US 2 / US 141 re @-@ enters Michigan where it crosses the Menominee River and subsequently meets M ‑ 95 in Breitung Township north of Iron Mountain and Kingsford . The highways merge in a triple concurrency and run south on Stephenson Avenue into Iron Mountain along the west side of Lake Antoine , parallel to a branch line of the Escanaba and Lake Superior Railroad ( ELS Railroad ) . The road crosses through a retail corridor and over a flooded pit of the Chapin Mine . In downtown Iron Mountain at Ludington Street , M ‑ 95 turns west off Stephenson Avenue to run across town to Kingsford . US 2 / US 141 exits downtown and turns east along a second retail corridor near the Midtown Mall . The highway re @-@ enters Breitung Township where US 141 separates to the south to re @-@ enter Wisconsin . US 2 continues eastward parallel to a branch of the Canadian National Railway ( CN Railway ) . Both road and rail travel through the community of Quinnesec , where they pass near the largest paper mill in the UP . The trunkline runs along the main street of Norway , where the highway meets the eastern terminus of US 8 . Then US 2 continues east through rural Dickinson County to Vulcan , passing north of Hanbury Lake through the Copper Country State Forest , before crossing the Sturgeon River in Loretto and passing into Menominee County . 

 In Menominee County , the environment takes on a more agricultural character along US 2 . The highway passes through the edge of the community of Hermansville before entering Powers . US 2 comes to a three @-@ way intersection and turns northeast merging onto US 41 . The concurrent highway runs from Powers through the communities of Wilson and Spaulding on the south side of the CN Railway . At Harris , the trunkline enters the Hannahville Indian Community . Harris is on the Menominee County side of the reservation , but as the highway continues east , it crosses over to Bark River on the Delta County side . The county line in between not only separates the two communities , but also serves as the boundary between the Central and Eastern time zones . East of Bark River , the highway crosses the community 's namesake waterway before intersecting the eastern terminus of M ‑ 69 . The roadway crosses the Ford River prior to turning due east into the outskirts of Escanaba . 

 US 2 / US 41 widens to four lanes along Ludington Street , which forms the east – west axis of the Escanaba street grid . Near downtown , the highway meets M ‑ 35 , which runs along the city 's north – south axis , Lincoln Avenue . The trunklines merge and run north , bypassing the traditional central business district for a different business corridor . Lincoln Avenue runs north carrying four lanes of traffic past the Upper Peninsula State Fairgrounds , site of one of the two state fairs for the state of Michigan , the only state to have twin fairs . US 2 / US 41 / M ‑ 35 continues north on Lincoln Avenue past the campus of Bay de Noc Community College . The four @-@ lane highway crosses the Escanaba River just upstream from its mouth near the large Mead Paper Mill and shifts to run immediately next to Little Bay de Noc . The section here carried the highest traffic counts along all of US 2 in the state : an average of 23 @,@ 977 vehicles used this segment of roadway daily in 2011 . 

 The road turns inland again , and US 2 / US 41 / M ‑ 35 passes to the west of downtown Gladstone . The highway through here is an expressway , four lanes divided by a central median and no driveway access . Unlike a freeway , the expressway has standard intersections and not interchanges . The highway intersects the eastern terminus of County Road 426 ( CR 426 ) and crosses the ELS Railroad south of the stoplight for 4th Avenue North , where M ‑ 35 separates from the US Highways and turns to the northwest . The expressway continues north parallel to the CN Railway , crossing the Days River . Through this area , the trunkline carries a speed limit of 65 mph ( 105 km / h ) for car traffic . This is the only road in the UP with a speed limit higher than 55 mph ( 89 km / h ) besides I @-@ 75 , which has a speed limit of 70 mph ( 110 km / h ) . The expressway segment runs around the upper end of Little Bay de Noc before ending at Rapid River . In this location , US 41 separates to the north , and US 2 returns to an easterly track as a two @-@ lane road , crossing the Rapid and Whitefish rivers and turning southeast around the head of the bay . As US 2 crosses southern Delta County , it passes through the western unit of the Hiawatha National Forest . Near Garden Corners , the highway runs along the shore of Big Bay de Noc . After the intersection with the northern terminus of M ‑ 183 , US 2 turns inland cutting across the base of the Garden Peninsula and enters Schoolcraft County . 

 As the highway approaches Thompson , US 2 leaves the western unit of the Hiawatha National Forest and enters the Lake Superior State Forest . The roadway runs along Lake Michigan to Manistique , crossing the Manistique River . The trunkline turns inland approaching Gulliver and then turns north @-@ northeast to Blaney Park . The community there is a former logging town @-@ turned @-@ resort at the southern terminus of M ‑ 77 ; the resort was active from the late 1920s but declined by the 1980s . From Blaney Park , US 2 turns due east and crosses into Mackinac County west of Gould City . Where it intersects a former routing , the main highway crosses the CN Railway one last time and runs to the south of Engadine to follow the Lake Michigan shoreline through Naubinway . After passing the community of Epoufette , US 2 crosses the Cut River Bridge , 147 feet ( 45 m ) over the Cut River . The highway crosses into the eastern unit of the Hiawatha National Forest near Brevort , running between Lake Michigan and Brevort Lake in the process . The road continues along the Lake Michigan shoreline , passing Mystery Spot near Gros Cap and turning inland immediately west of St. Ignace . The US 2 designation ends at the highway 's partial cloverleaf interchange with I ‑ 75 . The roadway continues easterly into downtown St. Ignace as Business Loop I ‑ 75 ( BL I ‑ 75 ) . 


 = = History = = 



 = = = Indian trail through auto trails = = = 


 In 1701 , the first transportation routes through what became the state of Michigan were the lakes , rivers and Indian trails . Two of these trails followed parts of the future US 2 . The Sault – Green Bay Trail roughly followed the Lake Michigan shoreline routing of US 2 between Escanaba and St. Ignace . The Mackinac Trail connected St. Ignace with Sault Ste . Marie . 

 In the age of the auto trail , the roads that later formed US 2 through the UP were given a few different highway names . When the original roadways between Ironwood and Iron River were completed in late 1915 , the Upper Peninsula Development Bureau ( UPDB ) named the area Cloverland and the highway the Cloverland Trail . Later the name was extended over the highway to Escanaba , and to all highways in the area in the early 1920s ; the name was phased out by the UPDB completely in 1927 . The roadways were also used for the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway , named for former US president Theodore Roosevelt after his death in 1919 . Overall , this highway ran from Portland , Oregon , to Portland , Maine , by way of Michigan and the Canadian province of Ontario . Through the UP , the southern branch followed the immediate predecessors to US 2 , including the section through Florence County , Wisconsin . 

 The Great Lakes Automobile Route was established in 1917 by the UPDB . A predecessor of the Great Lakes Circle Tours by seventy years , the route followed " a circular journey along the banks of lakes Michigan and Superior and Green Bay ... " This route followed the modern US 2 from Ironwood to the M ‑ 94 junction in Manistique , using the modern M ‑ 69 and M ‑ 95 to stay in Michigan . Branches of the route followed US 41 and M ‑ 35 between Powers and Escanaba . The route was originally intended to entice motorists to drive around Lake Michigan . The name fell out of use before its first anniversary because of World War I. 

 One Canadian auto trail was routed through the UP as well . In 1920 , the King 's International Highway linked Vancouver , British Columbia , to Halifax , Nova Scotia , but there was no highway to carry it around the north side of Lake Superior . Motorists had to ship their cars by boat between Sault Ste . Marie , Ontario , and Thunder Bay or enter the United States to continue along the auto trail . The routings varied on the maps of the time , but its basic route used US 2 through the UP from Ironwood to Sault Ste . Marie until a highway north of Lake Superior was opened in 1960 ; by that time , the auto trail had taken on the Trans @-@ Canada Highway name . 


 = = = State trunkline = = = 


 The first state trunkline highway designated along the path of the modern US 2 was M ‑ 12 , a designation that was in use by July 1 , 1919 , between Ironwood and Sault Ste . Marie . The first roadside park in the country was created by Herbert Larson near what is now US 2 near Iron River in 1919 – 20 , although other sources state that the first was a picnic table alongside US 16 ( Grand River Avenue ) in 1929 south of Saranac . When the US Highway System was created on November 11 , 1926 , US 2 partially replaced M @-@ 12 . Between Crystal Falls and Iron Mountain , US 2 was routed through Florence , Wisconsin . The former routing of M ‑ 12 from Crystal Falls to Sagola became a new M ‑ 69 when the former M ‑ 69 became US 102 ( now US 141 ) . M ‑ 12 from Sagola south to Iron Mountain was made a part of an extended M ‑ 45 , which is now M ‑ 95 . By the next year , M ‑ 48 was added along US 2 from Rexton to Garnet as part of a larger extension . 

 The first changes to the routing of US 2 itself were made in 1930 with a bypass of downtown Escanaba . A larger rerouting was completed in 1933 between Rogers Park and Sault Ste . Marie . The new routing followed Mackinac Trail instead of turning east to Cedarville and north to Sault Ste . Marie ; the former routing was given the M ‑ 121 designation . Another realignment in the Iron Mountain area shifted US 2 / US 141 to a new bridge over the Menominee River between 1932 and 1934 . Downtown Ironwood was bypassed in 1934 , and the former route was initially designated M ‑ 54 . 

 The Michigan State Highway Department ( MSHD ) changed the routings and designations of the highways around Cooks , Thompson and Manistique in the mid @-@ 1930s . The agency rerouted US 2 between Cooks and M ‑ 149 in Thompson , turning the old road back to county control . The section between M ‑ 149 and M ‑ 125 was redesignated as an extension of M ‑ 149 to Thompson , and M ‑ 125 was replaced by a further extension of M ‑ 149 . The last change was to route US 2 along its current alignment in the area , completing the changes on August 2 , 1936 . 

 The MSHD started construction in 1936 on a new road that rerouted US 2 into St. Ignace for the first time . Between Brevort and Moran , US 2 previously followed Worth Road inland to the Tahquamenon Trail to meet the northern extension of US 31 into the Upper Peninsula . The new routing took US 2 along the lakeshore into St. Ignace . US 31 was truncated to the state ferry docks in Mackinaw City and US 2 was routed through St. Ignace along the former US 31 to Rogers Park ; the connection in St. Ignace to the state ferry docks became M ‑ 122 . Further changes in the early 1940s straightened the roadway out near Watersmeet and Crystal Falls . 

 Additional realignments were completed by the MSHD to move US 2 to its modern lakeshore routing between Gould City and Epoufette in 1941 . The new highway traveled due east from Gould City to Naubinway and then along the lake to Epoufette . The former route through Engadine was turned back to local control as far east as Garnet . From there east , it was numbered just M ‑ 48 , removing US 2 from a concurrency . Another former section into Epoufette was added to extend M ‑ 117 . The new highway was detoured around the Cut River Bridge until it was completed in 1946 after construction delays over steel shortages during World War II . 

 The western end of US 2 took on two changes in the 1940s . M ‑ 28 was extended along US 2 to the state line at Ironwood from its western terminus at Wakefield . A similar extension was made from M ‑ 28 's eastern terminus to Sault Ste . Marie in 1948 . The M ‑ 54 designation was renumbered as Business US 2 by 1945 . The eastern M ‑ 28 extension was reversed in 1950 , and the western extension to the state line was shifted to a new location by 1952 . 


 = = = Interstate era = = = 


 With the coming of the Interstate Highway System in Michigan , the MSHD planned to convert the eastern section of US 2 to a freeway between St. Ignace and Sault St. Marie . In planning maps from 1947 , this highway corridor was included in the system that later became the Interstates . It was also included in the General Location of National System of Interstate Highways Including All Additional Routes at Urban Areas Designated in September 1955 , or Yellow Book after the cover color , that was released in 1955 as the federal government readied plans for the freeway system . The proposed number in 1958 was Interstate 75 ( I ‑ 75 ) . 

 The first section of freeway was built in late 1957 or early 1958 between Evergreen Shores and M ‑ 123 north of St. Ignace . The Mackinac Bridge was opened to traffic on November 1 , 1957 ; a new section of freeway and an interchange connected US 2 to the bridge . In 1961 , another new freeway segment closed the gap between the Mackinac Bridge and Evergreen Shores sections . At the time , the I ‑ 75 designation supplanted US 27 on the bridge , and US 2 was shifted to follow I ‑ 75 along the freeways in the St. Ignace area . The former routing of US 2 in downtown St. Ignace was redesignated BL I ‑ 75 . More sections of freeway were opened in 1962 immediately to the south of the newly constructed International Bridge in Sault Ste . Marie as well as between Dafter and Kinross . The last two sections opened in 1963 connected the northern end of the freeway at M ‑ 123 to Kinross , and the section between Dafter and Sault Ste . Marie . At this time , all of US 2 's former routing became a county road known as Mackinac Trail ( H @-@ 63 ) . 

 The Department of State Highways expanded US 2 / US 41 into an expressway between Gladstone and Rapid River in 1971 . The state built a new bridge over the Manistique River in 1983 , bypassing downtown . MDOT disposed of the former routing of US 2 into downtown in two ways . The western half was initially an unnumbered state highway until it was later transferred to local control . An extension of M ‑ 94 replaced the remainder , including the Siphon Bridge , through downtown . In that same year , the department truncated US 2 to end in St. Ignace by removing it from the I ‑ 75 freeway . The last changes were made to US 2 's routing through Iron River in 1998 , bypassing the bridge that formerly carried the highway over the river in town . In 2011 , MDOT raised the speed limit along the expressway section in Delta County from 55 to 65 mph ( 89 to 105 km / h ) , although the speed limit for trucks remains 55 mph ( 89 km / h ) . 


 = = Memorial designations and tourist routes = = 


 On July 1 , 1924 , the State Administrative Board named M ‑ 12 , the predecessor to US 2 in Michigan , the Bohn Highway to honor Frank P. Bohn , a prominent local citizen who later served in Congress from 1927 to 1933 . In 1929 , the residents of Escanaba created a memorial to the veterans of World War I called Memory Lane . The project consisted of elm and maple trees planted along US 2 / US 41 west of town . The American Legion sold the trees to local businesses and individuals who could honor specific soldiers . Later in 1949 , the Bessemer Women 's Club created a tribute in the form of a permanent living memorial to the area veterans . Also called Memory Lane , the group planted 140 elms and 1 @,@ 840 evergreens , trees and shrubs as a landscaped parkway along 2 @.@ 3 miles ( 3 @.@ 7 km ) of US 2 east of Bessemer . 

 Most of US 2 , along with US 23 in the Lower Peninsula , was designated the United Spanish War Veterans Memorial Highway in 1949 . To connect the gap in the routing where US 2 cuts through Wisconsin , M ‑ 95 and M ‑ 69 were used in place of US 2 between Iron Mountain and Crystal Falls . Signs marking the highway were not erected until 1968 when Governor George W. Romney had them installed . 

 The Amvets Memorial Drive designation was created for the section of US 2 / US 41 / M ‑ 35 between the northern Escanaba city limits and County Road 426 ( CR 426 ) in Delta County . The American Veterans ( AMVETS ) organization in Michigan petitioned the Michigan Legislature to grant this designation , which was assigned under Public Act 144 in 1959 . 

 Two sections of US 2 are part of the overall Great Lakes Circle Tour ( GLCT ) : the segment from the Wisconsin state line near Ironwood to the M ‑ 28 junction in Wakefield is part of the Lake Superior Circle Tour ( LSCT ) , and the segment from the southern M ‑ 35 junction in Escanaba to the eastern terminus in St. Ignace is part of the Lake Michigan Circle Tour ( LMCT ) . These two tours were created in May 1986 through a joint effort between MDOT and its counterparts in Wisconsin , Minnesota and Ontario . The section of US 2 between Iron River and Crystal Falls has been named the Iron County Heritage Trail . This Pure Michigan Byway was designated to honor the " rich history of two industries that built a state and nation : mining and logging . " On August 26 , 2007 , MDOT announced that the section of US 2 that runs concurrently with M ‑ 35 in Delta County was being included in the UP Hidden Coast Recreational Heritage Trail . 


 = = Historic bridges = = 


 There are six bridges along current or former sections of US 2 that MDOT has added to its listing of Michigan 's Historic Bridges ; two of these are also listed on the National Register of Historic Places ( NRHP ) . A third bridge added to the NRHP in late 2012 has not been added to MDOT 's listing however . The first of these historic bridges is the crossing of the Iron River , which has since been bypassed by a new bridge . The original structure , dating to 1918 , is a 55 @-@ foot @-@ long ( 17 m ) spandrel arch span that was built by the MSHD as Trunk Line Bridge No. 191 . The structure was listed on the NRHP on December 9 , 1999 , for its architectural and engineering significance . 

 In December 2012 , the National Park Service approved the listing of the Upper Twin Falls Bridge that crosses the Menominee River northwest of Iron Mountain . The structure is a single @-@ span , pin @-@ connected , camelback , through @-@ truss bridge , and it is the only known example of its type in Michigan . It was built between 1909 and 1910 because the Twin Falls Power Dam would flood an existing river crossing . The span cost $ 5 @,@ 106 ( equivalent to $ 780 @,@ 000 in 2015 ) , paid equally by Dickinson and Florence counties . Until the 1930s , the Upper Twin Falls Bridge carried US 2 across the Menominee River . In 1934 , a new bridge was built about a mile downstream , and the highway was rerouted over the new span . The bridge closed to automobile traffic in September 1971 , and the nomination process for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places began in 2012 . 

 In 2003 , MDOT replaced the Sturgeon River Bridge in Waucedah Township , Dickinson County . As of October 2011 , even though the old bridge was demolished and replaced , MDOT retained it on their historic bridge list . It was built in 1929 . 

 Before 1983 , US 2 used a different routing through Manistique and crossed the Manistique River on what is nicknamed the " Siphon Bridge " . Built as a part of a raceway flume on the river , the water level is actually higher than the road surface . This produces a siphon effect , giving the bridge its nickname . The Manistique Pulp and Paper Company was organized in 1916 and needed a dam on the Manistique River to supply their mill . This dam would require a large section of the city to be flooded , and shallow river banks meant difficulties in any bridge construction . Instead of expensive dikes , a concrete tank was built lengthwise in the river bed ; the sides of this tank provided man @-@ made banks higher than the natural banks . The Michigan Works Progress Administration described the bridge as having " concrete bulkheads , formed by the side spans of the bridge , [ that ] allow the mill to maintain the water level several feet above the roadbed . " The Manistique Tourism Council stated : " At one time , the bridge itself was partially supported by the water that was atmospherically forced under it , " and that the bridge has been featured in Ripley 's Believe It or Not ! . The eight @-@ span structure is 294 feet ( 90 m ) long . 

 The Cut River Bridge carries US 2 across the Cut River in Hendricks Township , Mackinac County . This structure was built during World War II but completion was delayed due to war @-@ induced steel shortages . The span uses 888 short tons ( 793 long tons ; 806 t ) of structural steel to bridge the 641 feet ( 195 m ) over the river and its gorge at a height of 147 feet ( 45 m ) above the river . The Cut River Bridge is one of only two cantilevered deck truss bridges in the state . On either side of the bridge , there are picnic areas and trails down to the river . 

 Listed on the NRHP on December 17 , 1999 , the Mackinac Trail – Carp River Bridge carries H @-@ 63 , the modern successor to US 2 , over the Carp River north of St. Ignace . The bridge is another spandrel arch structure 60 feet ( 18 m ) in length and built in 1920 . Increasing traffic along Mackinac Trail prompted the MSHD to " widen its deck by five feet [ 1 @.@ 5 m ] and install new guardrails in the 1929 – 1930 biennium " along with the addition of decorative retaining walls . 

 The last of the historic bridges along a former segment of US 2 is the structure carrying Ashmun Street ( BS I ‑ 75 ) over the Power Canal in Sault Ste . Marie . Built in 1934 , it is one of only three steel arch bridges in the state . The 42 @-@ foot @-@ wide ( 13 m ) and 257 @-@ foot @-@ long ( 78 m ) structure is described by MDOT as " massive " with an " innovative " construction method : the previous structure was used as a falsework for the current bridge before removal . 


 = = Major intersections = = 


 MDOT has erected milemarkers along the two Michigan segments of the highway that use the total mileage starting at the state line in Ironwood ; the signs on the eastern segment reflect the mileage in Florence County , Wisconsin . 


 = = Business route = = 


 Business U.S. Highway 2 ( Bus . US 2 ) is a 1 @.@ 270 @-@ mile ( 2 @.@ 044 km ) business route that runs from the Wisconsin state line at the Montreal River . The route extends through downtown Ironwood on Silver and Aurora streets before turning northward along Suffolk Street . Bus . US 2 stays on Suffolk Street for a short while until it turns onto Frederick Street . On Frederick Street , Bus . US 2 bears north through a residential area along Douglas Street . The eastern terminus of the route is at its junction with US 2 at the corner of Cloverland Drive and Douglas Street north of downtown . 

 The business route was created in August 1942 when former M ‑ 54 in Ironwood was renumbered as a business loop of US 2 . It was originally a bi @-@ state business connection before the Wisconsin Department of Transportation decommissioned Bus . US 2 in Hurley westward along State Trunk Highway 77 and northward along US 51 in 2002 . 



 = Butterfly World Tour = 


 The Butterfly World Tour was the third concert tour by American singer @-@ songwriter Mariah Carey . The tour promoted Carey 's album at the time , Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and included songs from several of her previous albums . The tour visited Asia , Australia and the United States , with rehearsals taking place in December 1997 . Starting on January 11 , 1998 the tour spanned five shows in Asia , six in Australia , and one in Hawaii , US . Throughout the tour , Carey varied hairstyles and outfits , as well as song selections . The Butterfly World Tour was very successful ; the four dates at Japan 's largest stadium , Tokyo Dome , sold out in under one hour , equaling over 200 @,@ 000 tickets , breaking the previous record she held at the stadium for show sell @-@ outs . 

 The tour was recorded in VHS format , and was titled Around the World . The video featured live performances of Carey at different worldwide venues including New York , Japan , Hawaii and Brisbane . Other scenes are included in the video such as a conversation between Carey and Brenda K. Starr prior to her performance of " I Still Believe " . Prior to the performances in Australia , a scene of Carey swimming with dolphins is shown . Additionally , Olivia Newton @-@ John makes a cameo appearance during their joint performance of Newton @-@ John 's song , " Hopelessly Devoted to You " . The video was commercially successful , being certified platinum in the United States by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold in Brazil by the Associação Brasileira dos Produtores de Discos ( ABPD ) . 


 = = Background = = 


 Since her debut in 1990 , Carey had not journeyed on a large or extensive tour . In fact , she had not embarked on a tour until her third studio effort , Music Box ( 1993 ) , when she performed six arena shows in the United States during the Music Box Tour . The opening night of the tour received scathing reviews , mostly aimed at Carey 's deemed " obvious " stage @-@ fright and failure to make a connection with the crowd . Succeeding nights were more favorably reviewed , with critics raving about Carey 's vocals . Jon Pareles of The New York Times wrote regarding Carey 's live vocals , " Beyond any doubt , Ms. Carey 's voice is no studio concoction . Her range extends from a rich , husky alto to dog @-@ whistle high notes ; she can linger over sensual turns , growl with playful confidence , syncopate like a scat singer . " However , after the strong media attention , Carey did not visit the US on her succeeding Daydream World Tour in 1996 , visiting only Europe and Asia . The tour in contrast , received critical acclaim from critics and fans alike , as well as breaking ticket sale records . Carey 's three shows at Japan 's largest stadium , Tokyo Dome , sold out in under three hours , equaling in over 150 @,@ 000 tickets , setting the record of fastest show sellouts in Japan 's history . On the Butterfly World Tour , Carey broke the record , selling 200 @,@ 000 tickets in under one hour . During 1997 , after the commercially and critically successful release of Butterfly , Carey had not planned to tour once again , due to the long travel times and strain on her voice . However , due to overwhelming demand by fans , Carey agreed to perform in Asia once again , only extending the tour to Taiwan and Australia , as well as one last show in the United States . Rehearsals for the show began shortly after Christmas 1997 , extending for a period of two weeks . 


 = = Concert synopsis = = 


 The show began with Carey standing on a small elevated centerpiece on stage , surrounded by several long draped curtains . Carey featured three background vocalists throughout the tour , Trey Lorenz , Melodie Daniels and Kelly Price . As the introduction began with " Emotions " , each of the curtains were slowly draped , revealing Carey atop the platform , dressed in a beige mini @-@ dress and matching sheer blouse and stiletto heels . As she began performing " Emotions " , the platform was lowered so Carey could access the other sections of the stage throughout the song 's performance . After an intimate performance with dimmed lights for " The Roof ( Back in Time ) " , Carey was joined on @-@ stage by a Peruvian guitar player , who played the Latin @-@ inspired guitar melodies during her performance of " My All " . Afterwards , Carey sang " Close My Eyes " , the only sitting performance of the show . During the song , several male backup dancers performed slow and ample dance routines behind Carey on a higher level of the stage . 

 For the second part of the show , Carey had the second costume change of the evening , donning a long sequined black gown and semi @-@ teased hair . For the performance of " Dreamlover " , Carey was joined by three female back @-@ up dancers , who mimicked her light dance routines during the song . The next song on the set @-@ list was " Hero " , which featured Carey alone on @-@ stage , without any vocal back @-@ up . After the song 's performance , Carey was joined on @-@ stage by Lorenz , who performed " I 'll Be There " alongside her . Next came " Make It Happen " , a song which accompanied yet another wardrobe change for Carey . She donned a short mini @-@ skirt , alongside a sleeveless white blouse and loose golden curls . On @-@ stage , Carey was joined by a full church choir , all dressed in long black garments . After the song 's recital , Carey performed " One Sweet Day " , alongside a previously recorded video of Boyz II Men during their live performance of the song with Carey at Madison Square Garden in 1995 . 

 After completing the song , Carey changed to a pair of leg @-@ hugging blue jeans and a tank top . Her next performance was the " Fantasy " remix , featuring Ol ' Dirty Bastard on a large projection screen behind the stage , as Carey performed light chair dance @-@ routines alongside several male dancers . The performance featured the most intricate choreography Carey performed on the tour . After a low @-@ key performance of " Babydoll " , or " Whenever You Call " in other countries , Carey was once again joined by several male dancers , as she sang " Honey " , while re @-@ enacting the music video during a small skit . Carey once again changed to a beige ensemble similar to her first outfit before performing her debut single , " Vision of Love " . The final song on the tour was " Butterfly " , which featured large stills of butterflies and flowers projected onto the large screen behind Carey . She donned a long brown sequined gown for the performance , being joined on stage once again by her trio of back @-@ up singers . During the shows in Japan , Carey performed her holiday classic " All I Want for Christmas Is You " , alongside various male and female dancers on stage who performed light dance routines alongside Carey . During the song , Carey donned a Santa suit and matching hat , while being carried on a large stage prop by the dancers . 


 = = Critical reception = = 


 Virtually the entire tour was an instant sell @-@ out ; the four shows at Japan 's largest stadium , Tokyo Dome , broke Carey 's previous ticket @-@ sales record , selling out all 200 @,@ 000 tickets in under one hour . Additionally , the entire Australian leg sold out within hours , leading Carey to extend the tour one more date in the United States . The show at Hawaii 's 50 @,@ 000 capacity Aloha Stadium sold out as well , making her one of the few acts in the stadiums history to sell out the entire venue . Aside from its commercial success , fans and critics raved about the show 's visuals , as well as Carey 's vocal delivery . 


 = = Broadcasts and recordings = = 


 During the tour , several bits and performances were filmed and later edited into a VHS and DVD entitled Around the World . The VHS featured performances from Tokyo Dome , Aloha Stadium as well as few other skits and scenes that were later compiled into the video . The film first begins with performances in Hawaii , where the song 's recitals are cut into halves , excluding the second verses and bridge to shorten the bulk length of the video . Afterwards , Carey 's performance of " My All " is shown in inter @-@ cut scenes from Japan and Taipei . After the conclusion of the song , scenes of Carey conversing with Brenda K. Starr are shown , which eventually lead to a tribute to her at a small and intimate New York club , where Carey performs " I Still Believe " . Soon after , Carey 's performance in Japan with Lorenz for " I 'll Be There " is shown , leading to scenes of Carey swimming with dolphins in Australia. the next title on the video is Carey 's live rendition of " Hopelessly Devoted To You " , where she is joined by Olivia Newton @-@ John on stage in Melbourne . A scene of a fans gathering outside of a New York City studio is shown , following a performance of " Honey , " and " Hero " at Aloha Stadium . The VHS was a commercial success , being certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) , denoting shipments of over 100 @,@ 000 units . The video was also certified gold in Brazil by the Associação Brasileira dos Produtores de Discos ( ABPD ) . 


 = = Set list = = 


 " Looking In / Butterfly ( Intro ) " 

 " Emotions " 

 " The Roof " 

 " My All " 

 " Close My Eyes " 

 " Daydream Interlude ( Fantasy Sweet Dub Mix ) " 

 " Dreamlover " 

 " Hero " 

 " I 'll Be There " ( with Trey Lorenz ) 

 " Make You Happy ( Trey Lorenz ) 

 " Make It Happen " 

 " One Sweet Day " ( featuring pre @-@ recorded Boyz II Men ) 

 " Ain 't Nobody ( Band Interlude ) 

 " Fantasy ( Bad Boy Remix " 

 " Whenever You Call " 1 

 " Breakdown1 

 " Honey " ( featuring pre @-@ recorded Mase ) " 

 " Vision of Love " 

 " Butterfly 

 " Without You1 

 " Butterfly ( Outro ) " 

 " All I Want for Christmas is You1 

 < sus > 1 < / sus > Performed on select dates 


 = = Shows = = 



 = = Personnel = = 


 Walter Afanasieff - director , keyboard 

 Dan Shea - keyboard 

 Vernon Black - guitar 

 Randy Jackson - bass 

 Gigi Conway - drums 

 Peter Michael - percussion 

 Gary Cirimelli - music sequencing 

 Trey Lorenz - vocals , background vocals 

 Kelly Price - background vocals 

 Cheree Price - background vocals 

 Melonie Daniels - background vocals 

 Cindy Mizelle - background vocals 

 Source : 



 = Thelnetham Windmill = 


 Thelnetham Windmill , also known as Button 's Mill is a Grade II * listed tower mill constructed of brick . The windmill is located at Thelnetham , Suffolk , England . It was built in the early nineteenth century to grind wheat into flour . Thelnetham windmill worked by wind power until 1924 , latterly on two sails , after which it became derelict . 

 In 1979 , a group of enthusiasts purchased Thelnetham windmill for restoration . Numerous volunteers helped to restore the mill to full working order over an eight @-@ year period . The mill is open to the public , and flour ground at the mill can be bought at the site . 

 The mill is a small four storey tower mill with Patent sails and winded by a fantail . It drives two pairs of millstones , with a third pair driven by an auxiliary engine . 


 = = History = = 


 The windmill at Thelnetham was built by millwright George Bloomfield for William Button in 1819 . It replaced a post mill which had been moved to Sandy Lane , Diss , Norfolk the previous year . The mill was set to work on Christmas Day 1819 . In 1832 , the mill was modernised by the fitting of a cast @-@ iron windshaft , Patent sails and a fantail . The new windshaft was fitted on 16 July 1832 . It was made by J Aickman , the Kings Lynn millwright , and weighs 1 ¾ tons ( 1 @,@ 780 kg ) . A new stock was fitted in September 1836 . William Button died on 11 February 1837 . The mill passed jointly to his widow Rebecca and their son Richard . Richard Button worked the mill until 1860 , at which date it was conveyed to his sons Richard and William , who sold it to Richard Peverett from Kenninghall , Norfolk in 1862 . 

 The mill was worked by Stephen Peverett , Richard 's son . He inherited the mill on the death of his father in 1875 and leased it to Henry Bryant in 1879 . In 1884 , the mill was sold by auction , and Henry Bryant purchased the freehold . Bryant rebuilt the floors of the mill . From 1892 , a portable steam engine was used as auxiliary power , driving an extra pair of millstones on the ground floor . This was replaced in 1914 by a Hornsby oil engine . Bryant ran the mill until 1920 when he sold it to Alphonso Vincent , a retired millwright from Garboldisham , Norfolk . The Hornsby engine was sold in the early 1920s . The mill was tailwinded c1920 , and as a result one pair of sails was removed . Vincent carried out some repairs to the mill and ran it until he retired in 1924 . One of the remaining two sails was wrecked in 1926 when the mill was again tailwinded . 

 On the death of Alphonso Vincent in 1932 , his son George inherited the property . He lived at the site in an old lorry until his death in 1973 . The mill passed to his daughter , who sold it in 1974 to Mr and Mrs Humphries , who intended to convert it into a house . They later changed their minds and offered it for sale for restoration . In 1976 , the cap of the mill was blown to pieces in a gale . Thelnetham windmill was purchased by five members of the Suffolk Mills Group in November 1979 , and plans for restoration were made . The consortium consisted of Mark Barnard , Charles Dolman , Peter Dolman , David Pearce and Chris Seago . The derelict mill and an acre of land cost £ 6 @,@ 000 . 


 = = Restoration = = 


 The mill was restored over a period of six years . Much of the work was carried out by enthusiasts who used working holidays to repair the mill . 


 = = = 1979 – 1980 = = = 


 The consortium took possession of the mill in November 1979 . The first priority was to make the mill as weathertight as possible . Polythene sheets were spread on the dust floor of the mill to prevent further water penetration of the structure . The mill was surveyed and recorded . In spring 1980 , the dust floor partially collapsed and was removed as a safety measure . Scaffolding was erected to allow the fanstage to be dismantled , and the cap centering wheels were removed in preparation for the removal of the cap frame . 

 A two @-@ week work @-@ in was held at the end of July and beginning of August 1980 . Thirty @-@ three volunteers worked on the mill over the work @-@ in . Two new main floor beams for the dust floor were made from baulks of pitch pine which had previously been in a maltings at Bury St Edmunds . On 3 August 1980 , the windshaft and remaining sail fragments were removed by a mobile crane , followed by the cap frame and the cast @-@ iron curb sections . 

 New oak joists were laid on the dust floor and temporary boarding laid to provide a working platform for repairs to the top of the mill tower . The bin floor was removed , apart from one oak main beam which was repairable . A replacement main beam was made from pitch pine , and the oak beam was repaired . New oak joists were fitted , along with some salvaged from the original floor which were fit to be reused . One of these had previously been a whip from a Common sail . Some of the joists were made from pitch pine from the Eastbridge Windpump , which , following its collapse on 19 February 1977 , had been re @-@ erected at the Museum of East Anglian Life , Stowmarket . The sack hoist was dismantled to enable its repair , brickwork was repaired , and new lintels were made for some of the windows . A tarpaulin was secured over the mill tower to keep the weather out over winter . The floorboards on the bin floor were replaced and one of the two pairs of millstones was removed . 

 The work was financed by grants of £ 500 from the Council for the Preservation of Rural Essex , £ 250 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council , £ 200 from the Scarfe Trust , and £ 200 from the Suffolk Mills Group . Other donations and income amounted to £ 65 , with the balance of expenditure being met jointly by the five owners . 

 The " work @-@ in " was reported in both local and national media , including BBC Look East , Bury Free Press , Eastern Daily Press , East Anglian Daily Times , Daily Telegraph , and Radio Orwell . 


 = = = 1981 = = = 


 In the 1981 season two separate work @-@ ins were held , the first from 25 July to 2 August and the second from 22 August to 30 August . A total of 37 volunteers participated over the two weeks . 

 The millstones were removed from the stone floor , which was then repaired . One of the main beams was found to have been attacked by Death Watch beetles , and over a third of the elm beam was replaced with oak . The six supports for the hurst frame were repaired one at a time , as they bore the whole of the weight of the machinery above . One post required replacement . It had rotted and the floor had sunk by 4 inches ( 100 mm ) causing the second main floor beam to fracture . When this work had been completed , the stone floor was removed , including the second main floor beam , which was removed in one piece so that the most suitable route to install its replacement could be assessed . 

 The new main beam for the stone floor was installed and the ground floor was concreted . The stone floor was reconstructed , reusing the old stone bearers and those joists that were fit for reuse . Other joists were made new from oak or pitch pine . New floorboards were laid in the dust floor , the 1 1 ⁄ 4 inches ( 32 mm ) thick elm boards being double @-@ grooved with a metal tongue between them . Those on the bin floor are of a similar configuration . The top four courses of brickwork of the mill tower were removed and work began on rebuilding them , aided by a trammel attached to the upright shaft . 

 During the second work @-@ in , the remainder of the stone floor was boarded , again using double @-@ grooved boards with a metal tongue between them . The window on the dust floor was rebuilt and the reconstruction of the top four courses of brickwork continued . The top two courses were rebuilt with red engineering bricks . The dust floor window had a reinforced concrete lintel cast as the tower was weak at this point and had distorted . The windshaft , the curb segments and fantail gearing were given two coats of red lead paint . A new finial for the cap was made from a piece of oak 3 feet ( 910 mm ) long by 16 inches ( 410 mm ) diameter . A start was made on removing the old pointing on the brickwork and repointing with gauged mortar . 

 After the work @-@ in had finished , the boarding of the stone floor was completed and the mill thoroughly cleaned in preparation for an open day which was held in late autumn . The work done in 1981 cost £ 3 @,@ 250 . Donations received were £ 2 @,@ 000 from Rank Xerox , £ 1 @,@ 704 from the Historic Buildings Council and £ 130 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council . Other donations and income received amounted to £ 70 . The project received further coverage in local media , the Eastern Daily Press , and South Norfolk News . 


 = = = 1982 = = = 


 The 1982 work @-@ ins took place from 24 July to 1 August and 21 August to 29 August . The work planned included the completion of the brickwork at the top of the tower , installation of the Elm curb , a start on the construction of the new cap , installing machinery and making and fitting various doors and windows . The cap frame was constructed , incorporating two beams from the original cap frame that were fit to be reused . The cap frame was completed in autumn 1982 . It had been constructed upside down and a mobile crane was used to turn it over and place the windshaft into position . 


 = = = 1983 = = = 


 Work in the early part of 1983 was mainly confined to smaller jobs such as casting various brasses and overhaul of the various parts of the fantail drivetrain and mechanism for controlling the Patent sails . The mill was generally made as safe as possible inside in preparation for scheduled visits , including one from the Wind and Watermill Section of the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings . Other work included the overhaul of the final drive to the 4 feet 7 inches ( 1 @.@ 40 m ) stones , including dismantling the stone nut and replacement of three cogs in beech . 

 When the weather improved , work commenced outside . The cap circle was mostly constructed before the first work @-@ in commenced . The work @-@ ins took place over two separate weeks in July and August , with 35 people participating . During the first work @-@ in , the fantail posts and braces were fitted . The oak cap ribs , which had been prefabricated offsite were fitted and the finial was supported by scaffolding ready for final fitting . Intermdiate noggings of oak were fitted and the finial was pulled into position using a windlass . The cap frame was competed with the fitting of intermediate ribs and noggings . The rear of the cap circle was also completed during this time . 

 Between the two work @-@ ins , the rear dormer was completed and the fitting of noggings to the cap frame completed . This enabled a start to be made on boarding the cap on the Monday of the second work @-@ in . The boards for the cap are ½ inch ( 13 mm ) thick and 9 inches ( 230 mm ) wide at the petticoat , tapering towards the top . A new neck bearing was installed under the windshaft , not without difficulty and much machining before it would fit . When the boarding of the cap was completed , the cover strips were fitted over the joints . The petticoat was drawn into position using a rope and windlass , and the galvanised steel reinforcing band screwed into position , producing a sturdy structure . The striking rod was fitted through the windshaft and the axle for the fantail fitted in position on top of the fantail posts . At the top of the mill tower , the curb was prepared to accept the cap , and the cast iron curb track plates bolted into position . Repointing of the brickwork of the tower continued , with nearly half of it completed at the end of the second work @-@ in . 

 After the work @-@ ins had ended , work continued on finishing the cap which was scheduled for lift @-@ on in October . The weather hampered the work initially , but the application of a modern microporous paint , designed to withstand normal movement of the timber and yet remain waterproof , was completed in time for the lift @-@ on . A mini work @-@ in was held the weekend before the cap was lifted , with 17 people participating over the weekend . Final work was done to the cap and a new window was fitted to the stone floor of the mill . The tarpaulin was removed and the trammel dismantled . The 5 @-@ ton cap was lifted into place by a mobile crane on 24 October 1983 , watched by a crowd of some 70 people . The fitting of the cap was toasted with beer from Adnams Brewery , Southwold . 

 Restoration work in 1983 cost £ 1 @,@ 408 . Grants were received from the Association of Independent Museums , Blo ' Norton Women 's Institute , Ipswich Historical Transport Society , the National Association for Gifted Children , Mr D. Porter and the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings . Further income came from the sale of guide books and a drawing of the mill by Wilf Foreman . 


 = = = 1984 = = = 


 Four work @-@ ins were held during 1984 . The first two were by apprentices from Eastern Electricity Board . Thelnetham Windmill was chosen at the project to benefit from the Young Person 's Development Project for that year . Pakenham Watermill had previously benefited from the project , and its owners , the Suffolk Preservation Trust , had suggested that Thelnetham Windmill would be a good candidate for the scheme . Two separate parties spent a week each at the mill . A mains electricity supply was provided . An underground cable was laid with assistance from British Telecom who were trialling a thrust borer which had been developed at their research facility at Martlesham Heath . The thrust borer laid 25 yards ( 23 m ) of ducting through which the mains cable was pulled into position . The mill was then supplied with lights and sockets on each floor . 

 Other work undertaken by the apprentices involved repairing some frost damage to the foundation brickwork , digging a drainage trench around the mill and moving the auxiliary engine into position . A concrete path around the tower was trapping moisture , leading to rising damp . A French drain was constructed around the mill to remedy these problem . A 21 horsepower ( 16 kW ) Ruston & Hornsby 4YHR diesel engine had been purchased in 1981 and was fitted onto a permanent concrete base with the aid of a mobile crane . After fitting it was then painted . Some missing or broken parts were made or repaired as necessary . 

 Off @-@ site , the new brake wheel and fantail were made . The original brake wheel was too rotten to repair , and showed evidence that it had been altered from the original one installed in 1819 . The original brake wheel was 6 feet ( 1 @.@ 83 m ) diameter to allow the Common sails to run at their optimum speed . When the mill was modernised in 1832 it was necessary to alter the gear ratios within the mill , as Patent sails run at a slower speed than Common sails . The great spur wheel was increased in diameter and the stone nuts reduced in diameter . The brake wheel was also rebuilt , with a cast iron segment ring fitted in place of the original cogs , resulting in a wheel 7 feet 2 inches ( 2 @.@ 18 m ) in diameter . The opinion of professional millwrights was sought , and it was decided that a scaled @-@ up version of the original brake wheel would be made , but retaining the cast iron teeth segments . The remains of the original brake wheel were retained as an exhibit in the mill . The original iron segments were all broken , so a pattern was made and new segments were cast in heat @-@ treated malleable cast iron . When the brake wheel was completed it was dismantled and transported to the mill ready for reassembly . 

 The fantail was made . Some of the small gears were replaced . The stocks were made from pitch pine and the blades from Douglas fir . Work at the mill over the winter included repairs to the brickwork and windows , with only one window still needing attention when the first work @-@ in began . New beech cogs were fitted to the crown wheel , which was restored to its correct position on the upright shaft . 

 The stocks and sails were made during the two work @-@ ins held in July and August , a total of 41 people attending over the two weeks . A second @-@ hand stock had been bought in the 1920s and preserved at the mill , but upon examination it was found to be unfit for use . Thus two new stocks were required instead of one . Modern steel stocks had already been discounted on cost and durability grounds , leaving two options . Traditional stocks made from a single piece of timber , or laminated stocks . Good quality pitch pine was not obtainable in the lengths required . Douglas fir was obtainable in such lengths but was discounted on strength and durability grounds . A Douglas fir stock on a nearby mill had rotted after only seven years . Thus it was decided that laminated stocks would be made . 

 The 52 feet ( 15 @.@ 85 m ) long stocks were made from Douglas fir . All timber had been pressure treated with preservative and well seasoned . It was estimated that a laminated stock would be up to 20 % stronger than a similar stock of solid timber . The timber used was 1 1 ⁄ 2 inches ( 38 mm ) thick and nine laminations were required at the centre , where the stock passes through the poll end of the windshaft . Careful attention was paid to where individual joints occurred between different pieces of timber . Both stocks were made during the work @-@ in , with one of them being trimmed and finished ready for use . The stocks were the first laminated stocks made by amateurs . 

 The four sails were made . The originals being slightly different pairs . Those on the inner stock having bays of 3 feet ( 910 mm ) pitch and those on the outer stock having bays of 3 feet 2 inches ( 970 mm ) pitch . It was decided that the new sails would be identical , at the larger pitch . Four 27 feet ( 8 @.@ 23 m ) long whips were cut from a baulk of pitch pine obtained from a demolished maltings at Bury St Edmunds . The whips are 6 inches ( 150 mm ) square at their inner end . Sail bars and uplongs were made from modern pitch pine , selected for quality . The mortices for the sail bars were cut . That at the heel of the sail being at 27 ° and that at the tip being 15 ° , decreasing by 1 ½ ° at each sail bar . Three of the four sails had been completed at the end of the work in . 

 The fantail and associated gearing was fitted to the mill . At the end of the second work @-@ in , the cap could be turned by means of the hand crank . The fantail itself , with the blades painted red , white and blue was installed shortly afterwards . The clasp arm brake wheel was assembled around the windshaft . It was found that the wallower was eccentric on the upright shaft by ½ inch ( 13 mm ) . When this was corrected the brake wheel was within 1 / 16 th of an inch ( less than 1 mm ) of true . The clamps for the stocks were sawn from a baulk of pitch pine ready for completion later in the year . Other work included a new frame for one of the ground floor doors , cleaning and painting ironwork and further repointing on the brickwork . The four sails were fitted to the mill with the aid of a mobile crane at the end of the second work @-@ in . The stock , with one sail attached was carefully inserted through the poll end of the windshaft and when wedged in position and the clamps had been attached the second sail was fitted to the stock . The process was repeated for the second pair of sails . The mill turned by wind again on the last day of the second work @-@ in . 

 Work later in the year included the finishing of the fourth sail , balancing the fantail and sorting out teething troubles with the fantail gearing . The brake and brake lever were made and installed and shutter cranks for the sails were cast . 

 Restoration work in 1984 cost £ 2 @,@ 918 . Grants received were £ 1 @,@ 209 from English Heritage , £ 500 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council , Other donations amounted to £ 52 . Income from open days at the mill came to £ 151 . A boost to the funds was £ 2 @,@ 000 from Hervey Benham . This money had been allocated to allow the moving of a derelict post mill buck to Thelnetham . In the end , the removal was not proceeded with , and Mr Benham allowed the donation to remain with the Thelnetham Mill Preservation Trust . The project received further support in local media , including the East Anglian Daily Times , one of the work @-@ ins being featured on Anglia Television 's About Anglia programme . 


 = = = 1985 - 87 = = = 


 Work planned for 1985 included the replacement of the dust floor window and completion of the stocks and sails . The external walls of the mill were tarred and internal walls plastered . Two work @-@ ins were held , from 20 July to 28 July and 17 August to 26 August . Further work over the next two years saw the restoration completed in 1987 . 


 = = Restoration team = = 


 The restoration of Thelnetham Windmill was made possible by the efforts of 135 individuals and 61 organisations . This was achieved by the donation of labour , plant , materials or grants of money , or by giving discounts for materials purchased or providing publicity for the project . 


 = = Description = = 


 Terms explained in the Mill machinery article are in italics 

 As built in 1819 

 A four @-@ storey tower mill with Common sails carried on a wooden windshaft , driving two pairs of overdrift millstones . Brake wheel 6 feet ( 1 @.@ 83 m ) diameter . Winding was by hand . 

 As restored 

 The four @-@ storey tower is built of brick , and stands 31 feet 5 inches ( 9 @.@ 58 m ) from ground level to the curb . The walls are 2 feet ( 610 mm ) thick at ground level . The mill is described from the top down . 

 The pepperpot cap sits on top of the tower , giving the mill an overall height of 45 feet ( 13 @.@ 72 m ) to the finial . It houses the cast @-@ iron windshaft and 7 feet 2 inches ( 2 @.@ 18 m ) diameter wooden brake wheel internally . Externally the four double Patent sails span 64 feet ( 19 @.@ 51 m ) . They are 9 feet ( 2 @.@ 74 m ) wide and can develop 30 horsepower ( 22 kW ) . The eight bladed fantail keeps the mill turned into wind . 

 The top floor of the mill is the dust floor . It could be used for storage of grain and gives internal access to the cap . The cast @-@ iron wallower , which is driven by the brake wheel is carried at the top of the upright shaft , in the centre of the mill . 

 The bin floor is where the grain is stored before being ground into flour . The sack hoist mechanism is housed on this floor , driven from the wooden crown wheel on the floor below by belt . 

 The stone floor is where the two pairs of underdrift French Burr millstones are located . The stones are 4 feet 4 inches ( 1 @.@ 32 m ) and 4 feet 7 inches ( 1 @.@ 40 m ) diameter . The wooden crown wheel is located towards the ceiling . This drives the sack hoist on the bin floor . Other machinery on this floor are an oat crusher and a flour dresser . 

 The ground floor of the mill is the meal floor . It is where the freshly ground flour is delivered for bagging up . The wooden great spur wheel , located at the bottom of the extended upright shaft and stone nuts are located on this floor . The great spur wheel has been converted from compass arm construction to clasp arm construction . A third pair of 4 feet 6 inches ( 1 @.@ 37 m ) diameter French Burr millstones is located on a hurst frame , driven by the auxiliary engine via a fast and loose pulley . 


 = = Millers = = 


 William Button 1819 @-@ 37 

 Rebecca Button 1837- ? ? 

 Richard Button 18 ? ? -60 

 William Button 1860 @-@ 62 

 Richard Button ( Jr ) 1860 @-@ 62 

 Stephen Peverett 1862 @-@ 79 

 Henry Bryant 1879 @-@ 1920 

 Alphonso Vincent 1920 @-@ 24 

 George Vincent 1920 @-@ 24 

 Reference for above : - 


 = = Culture and media = = 


 A video of the restoration of the mill was produced by Viv Codd . 


 = = Public access = = 


 Thelnetham Mill is open to the public on Easter Monday , the Sunday of the late May and August bank holidays and the first Sunday in July , August and September . It is also open at other times by prior arrangement . 



 = Sailor Mouth = 


 " Sailor Mouth " is the first segment of the 18th episode of the second season , or the 38th overall episode of the American animated television series SpongeBob SquarePants . The episode was directed by Andrew Overtoom , and was written by Walt Dohrn , Paul Tibbitt , and Merriwether Williams . Dohrn and Tibbitt also served as storyboard directors , and Carson Kugler , William Reiss , and Erik Wiese worked as storyboard artists . It originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on September 21 , 2001 . 

 The series follows the adventures and endeavors of the title character and his various friends in the underwater city of Bikini Bottom . In this episode , SpongeBob reads a " bad word " off a dumpster behind the Krusty Krab , but does not know what it means . Patrick explains to him that it is a " sentence enhancer " which is used " when you want to talk fancy . " The two start using it in every sentence they speak . However , when Mr. Krabs hears them , he warns the two never to use the word again or any of the 13 bad words . Later on , SpongeBob accidentally swears again . Patrick then runs to tell Mr. Krabs with SpongeBob trying to stop him . However , when Mr. Krabs accidentally injures his toe , he utters all the 13 bad words . The two cannot believe it and run to Mama Krabs to tell on him . Mama Krabs , who is appalled by their use of the words , makes the three paint her house as punishment . 

 The episode received positive reviews , while various members of the SpongeBob SquarePants crew consider the episode to be one of their favorites , mainly due to the satirical nature of the episode . However , the episode was not immune to negative reception , and was criticized by watchdog media group the Parents Television Council and fans , who interpreted the episode as an example of promoting and implicitly satirizing use of profanity towards children . 


 = = Plot summary = = 


 When SpongeBob goes around to the back of the Krusty Krab to take out the trash , he reads some words written on a dumpster . SpongeBob asks Patrick what is it and Patrick says that the word is a " sentence enhancer " which is used " when you want to talk fancy . " The next day , SpongeBob walks into the Krusty Krab and says the word to Patrick and then over the intercom . The Krusty Krab customers are appalled by SpongeBob 's use of his " word " and leave . Squidward then informs Mr. Krabs , who then decides to tell them that they were using profanity , and mentions that there are 13 swear words they should not use . SpongeBob and Patrick vow Mr. Krabs that they will never use swear words again . 

 Later , they play their favorite game , Eels and Escalators . Patrick always gets escalators but SpongeBob always gets eels . Eventually , he loses the game and accidentally utters the swear word . Patrick then races to the Krusty Krab to tell Mr. Krabs with SpongeBob trying to stop him . SpongeBob bursts through the front door and tells Mr. Krabs that Patrick said the swear word , Patrick then joins along . Eventually , Mr. Krabs stops their gibberish explanations , and takes SpongeBob and Patrick outside and makes them paint the Krusty Krab as punishment . 

 Mr. Krabs is about to give SpongeBob and Patrick the job , but he hits his foot on a rock , throws the paint away and says all 13 swear words while complaining about his foot being injured . When SpongeBob and Patrick hear all the swear words , they run to Mama Krabs ' house to tell her that Mr. Krabs swears . When they all reach her house , they repeat the same swear words that Mr. Krabs used . This makes her faint , but shortly after Mr. Krabs scolds SpongeBob and Patrick for saying all those bad words in front of her she regains consciousness . Mama Krabs states that all three of them should be ashamed for saying all those words . She then gives all three of them the task of painting her house with a fresh coat of paint as punishment for saying those words at her . 


 = = Production = = 


 " Sailor Mouth " was directed by Andrew Overtoom , and was written by Walt Dohrn , Paul Tibbitt , and Merriwether Williams . Dohrn and Tibbitt also served as storyboard directors , and Carson Kugler , William Reiss and Erik Wiese worked as storyboard artists . Series creator Stephen Hillenburg has described the episode plot as " a classic thing all kids go through . " Much of the storyline for the episode was inspired by the writers ' own experiences from childhood . The episode originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on September 21 , 2001 . The episode marks the introduction of Mr. Krabs ' mother , Mama Krabs , who was voiced by former SpongeBob SquarePants creative producer and current executive producer Paul Tibbitt . 

 The writing staff used their individual childhood experiences as inspirations to come up with much of the story lines for this episode . The idea for " Sailor Mouth " was inspired by creative director Derek Drymon 's experience " [ when ] I got in trouble for saying the f @-@ word in front of my mother . " Drymon said , " The scene where Patrick is running to Mr. Krabs to tattle , with SpongeBob chasing him , is pretty much how it happened in real life . " The end of the episode , where Mr. Krabs uses more profanity than SpongeBob and Patrick , was also inspired " by the fact that my [ Drymon 's ] mother has a sailor mouth herself . " 

 The scene where SpongeBob and Patrick playing a game of Eels and Escalators , which is a parody of Snakes and Ladders , was difficult for the crew to animate , since many shots featured certain board pieces changing location . According to the series ' season 2 DVD commentary , it was planned to have a scene that had SpongeBob saying " Go ' dolphin noise ' yourself " followed by Patrick saying " ' Dolphin noise ' you too ! " during the Eels and Escalators game . It was removed in the final episode check because it would have been inappropriate for the younger audience . 

 " Sailor Mouth " was released on the DVD compilation called SpongeBob SquarePants : Sea Stories on March 12 , 2002 . It was also included in the SpongeBob SquarePants : The Complete 2nd Season DVD released on October 19 , 2004 . On September 22 , 2009 , " Sailor Mouth " was released on the SpongeBob SquarePants : The First 100 Episodes , alongside all the episodes of seasons one through five . 


 = = Reception = = 


 Erik Wiese , a member of the SpongeBob SquarePants crew , considers " Sailor Mouth " to be his favorite episode , mainly due to its random and satirical nature , saying " Sometimes SpongeBob just catches me off @-@ guard . " Nancy Basile of About.com ranked the episode at number two for her list of the Top 10 SpongeBob SquarePants Episodes . She said " ' Sailor Mouth ' just barely missed being in the number one slot . " Basile praised the episode 's plot and called it " genius [ ... ] because children can relate to the forbidden thrill of using curse words , and adults can laugh at the parody of TV censorship . " In an interview with Paul Tibbitt , one of the episode 's writers , he told that " Sailor Mouth " is his second favorite SpongeBob episode . 


 = = = Criticism and controversy = = = 


 According to a report titled Wolves in Sheep 's Clothing , which documents the increase in potentially violent , profane , and sexual content in children 's programming , the Parents Television Council , a watchdog media group , and fans believed the SpongeBob SquarePants episode " Sailor Mouth " was an implicit attempt to promote and satirize use of profanity among children . The episode originally aired during the 2001 – 02 television season , ironically the season in which the PTC named SpongeBob SquarePants among the best programs on cable television , but the report cited a repeat broadcast of the episode from 2005 to prove its point that it promoted use of profanity among children . In a later report , several members of the PTC listed " Sailor Mouth " as an example of how levels of profane , sexual , and violent activity has increased in children 's television programming . Nickelodeon , in response to the incident , said " It 's sad and a little desperate that they stooped to literally putting profane language in the mouths of our characters to make a point . Has the FCC looked at this ? " Richard Huff of the New York Daily News criticized the report for misinterpreting an episode of SpongeBob SquarePants , " Sailor Mouth " , over its intent to satirize profanity implicitly . 



 = Military history of Australia = 


 The military history of Australia spans the nation 's 220 @-@ year modern history , from the early Australian frontier wars between Aboriginals and Europeans to the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan in the early 21st century . Although this history is short when compared to that of many other nations , Australia has been involved in numerous conflicts and wars , and war and military service have been significant influences on Australian society and national identity , including the Anzac spirit . The relationship between war and Australian society has also been shaped by the enduring themes of Australian strategic culture and its unique security dilemma . 

 As British offshoots , the Australian colonies participated in Britain 's small wars of the 19th century , while later as a federated dominion , and then an independent nation , Australia fought in the First World War and Second World War , as well as in the wars in Korea , Malaya , Borneo and Vietnam during the Cold War . In the Post @-@ Vietnam era Australian forces have been involved in numerous international peacekeeping missions , through the United Nations and other agencies , including in the Sinai , Persian Gulf , Rwanda , Somalia , East Timor and the Solomon Islands , while more recently they have also fought as part of multi @-@ lateral forces in Iraq and Afghanistan . In total , nearly 103 @,@ 000 Australians died during the course of these conflicts . 


 = = War and Australian society = = 


 For most of the last century military service has been one of the single greatest shared experiences of white Australian males , and although this is now changing due to the professionalisation of the military and the absence of major wars during the second half of the 20th century , it continues to influence Australian society to this day . War and military service have been defining influences in Australian history , while a major part of the national identity has been built on an idealised conception of the Australian experience of war and of soldiering , known as the Anzac spirit . These ideals include notions of endurance , courage , ingenuity , humour , larrikinism , egalitarianism and mateship ; traits which , according to popular thought , defined the behaviour of Australian soldiers fighting at Gallipoli during the First World War . The Gallipoli campaign was one of the first international events that saw Australians taking part as Australians and has been seen as a key event in forging a sense of national identity . 

 The relationship between war and Australian society has been shaped by two of the more enduring themes of Australian strategic culture : bandwagoning with a powerful ally and expeditionary warfare . Indeed , Australian defence policy was closely linked to Britain until the Japanese crisis of 1942 , while since then an alliance with the United States has underwritten its security . Arguably , this pattern of bandwagoning — both for cultural reasons such as shared values and beliefs , as well as for more pragmatic security concerns — has ensured that Australian strategic policy has often been defined by relations with its allies . Regardless , a tendency towards strategic complacency has also been evident , with Australians often reluctant to think about defence issues or to allocate resources until a crisis arises ; a trait which has historically resulted in unpreparedness for major military challenges . 

 Reflecting both the realist and liberal paradigms of international relations and the conception of national interests , a number of other important themes in Australian strategic culture are also obvious . Such themes include : an acceptance of the state as the key actor in international politics , the centrality of notions of Westphalian sovereignty , a belief in the enduring relevance and legitimacy of armed force as a guarantor of security , and the proposition that the status quo in international affairs should only be changed peacefully . Likewise , multilateralism , collective security and defence self @-@ reliance have also been important themes . Change has been more evolutionary than revolutionary and these strategic behaviours have persisted throughout its history , being the product of Australian society 's democratic political tradition and Judaeo @-@ Christian Anglo @-@ European heritage , as well its associated values , beliefs and economic , political and religious ideology . These behaviours are also reflective of its unique security dilemma as a largely European island on the edge of the Asia @-@ Pacific , and the geopolitical circumstances of a middle power physically removed from the centres of world power . To be sure , during threats to the core Australia has often found itself defending the periphery and perhaps as a result , it has frequently become involved in foreign wars . Throughout these conflicts Australian soldiers — known colloquially as Diggers — have often been noted , somewhat paradoxically , for both their fighting abilities and their humanitarian qualities . 


 = = Colonial era = = 



 = = = British Forces in Australia , 1788 – 1870 = = = 


 From 1788 until 1870 the defence of the Australian colonies was mostly provided by British Army regular forces . Originally Marines protected the early settlements at Sydney Cove and Norfolk Island , however they were relieved of these duties in 1790 by a British Army unit specifically recruited for colonial service , known as the New South Wales Corps . The New South Wales Corps subsequently was involved in putting down a rebellion of Irish convicts at Castle Hill in 1804 . Soon however shortcomings in the corps convinced the War Office of the need for a more reliable garrison in New South Wales and Van Diemen 's Land . Chief of these shortcomings was the Rum Rebellion , a coup mounted by its officers in 1808 . As a result , in January 1810 the 73rd ( Perthshire ) Regiment of Foot arrived in Australia . By 1870 , 25 British infantry regiments had served in Australia , as had a small number of artillery and engineer units . 

 Although the primary role of the British Army was to protect the colonies against external attack , no actual threat ever materialised . The British Army was instead used in policing , guarding convicts at penal institutions , combating bushranging , putting down convict rebellions — as occurred at Bathurst in 1830 — and to suppress Aboriginal resistance to the extension of European settlement . Notably British soldiers were involved in the battle at the Eureka Stockade in 1854 on the Victorian goldfields . Members of British regiments stationed in Australia also saw action in India , Afghanistan , New Zealand and the Sudan . 

 During the early years of settlement the naval defence of Australia was provided by detached Royal Navy units of the East Indies Station , based in Sydney . However , in 1859 Australia was established as a separate squadron under the command of a commodore , marking the first occasion that Royal Navy ships had been permanently stationed in Australia . The Royal Navy remained the primary naval force in Australian waters until 1913 , when the Australia Station ceased and responsibility handed over to the Royal Australian Navy ; the Royal Navy 's depots , dockyards and structures were given to the Australian people . 


 = = = Frontier warfare , 1788 – 1934 = = = 


 The reactions of the native Aboriginal inhabitants to the sudden arrival of British settlers in Australia were varied , but were inevitably hostile when the settler 's presence led to competition over resources , and to the occupation of the indigenous inhabitants ' lands . European diseases decimated Aboriginal populations , and the occupation or destruction of lands and food resources sometimes led to starvation . By and large neither the British nor the Aborigines approached the conflict in an organised sense and conflict occurred between groups of settlers and individual tribes rather than systematic warfare . At times , however , the frontier wars did see the involvement of British soldiers and later mounted police units . Not all Aboriginal groups resisted white encroachment on their lands , while many Aborigines served in mounted police units and were involved in attacks on other tribes . 

 Fighting between Aborigines and Europeans was localised as the Aborigines did not form confederations capable of sustained resistance . As a result , there was not a single war , but rather a series of violent engagements and massacres across the continent . Organised or disorganised however , a pattern of frontier warfare emerged with Aboriginal resistance beginning in the 18th century and continuing into the early 20th century . This warfare contradicts the popular and at times academic " myth " of peaceful settlement in Australia . Faced with Aboriginal resistance settlers often reacted with violence , resulting in a number of indiscriminate massacres . Among the most famous is the Battle of Pinjarra in Western Australia in 1834 . Such incidents were not officially sanctioned however , and after the Myall Creek massacre in New South Wales in 1838 seven Europeans were hanged for their part in the killings . However , in Tasmania the so @-@ called Black War was fought between 1828 and 1832 , and aimed at driving most of the island 's native inhabitants onto a number of isolated peninsulas . Although it began in failure for the British , it ultimately resulted in considerable casualties amongst the native population . 

 It may be inaccurate though to depict the conflict as one sided and mainly perpetrated by Europeans on Aborigines . Although many more Aborigines died than British , this may have had more to do with the technological and logistic advantages enjoyed by the Europeans . Aboriginal tactics varied , but were mainly based on pre @-@ existing hunting and fighting practices — using spears , clubs and other primitive weapons . Unlike the indigenous peoples of New Zealand and North America , on the main Aborigines failed to adapt to meet the challenge of the Europeans . Although there were some instances of individuals and groups acquiring and using firearms , this was not widespread . The Aborigines were never a serious military threat to European settlers , regardless of how much the settlers may have feared them . On occasions large groups of Aborigines attacked the settlers in open terrain and a conventional battle ensued , during which the Aborigines would attempt to use superior numbers to their advantage . This could sometimes be effective , with reports of them advancing in crescent formation in an attempt to outflank and surround their opponents , waiting out the first volley of shots and then hurling their spears while the settlers reloaded . However , such open warfare usually proved more costly for the Aborigines than the Europeans . 

 Central to the success of the Europeans was the use of firearms . However , the advantages afforded by firearms have often been overstated . Prior to the late 19th century , firearms were often cumbersome muzzle @-@ loading , smooth @-@ bore , single shot muskets with flint @-@ lock mechanisms . Such weapons produced a low rate of fire , while suffering from a high rate of failure and were only accurate within 50 metres ( 160 ft ) . These deficiencies may have initially given the Aborigines an advantage , allowing them to move in close and engage with spears or clubs . Yet by 1850 significant advances in firearms gave the Europeans a distinct advantage , with the six @-@ shot Colt revolver , the Snider single shot breech @-@ loading rifle and later the Martini @-@ Henry rifle , as well as rapid @-@ fire rifles such as the Winchester rifle , becoming available . These weapons , when used on open ground and combined with the superior mobility provided by horses to surround and engage groups of Aborigines , often proved successful . The Europeans also had to adapt their tactics to fight their fast @-@ moving , often hidden enemies . Tactics employed included night @-@ time surprise attacks , and positioning forces to drive the natives off cliffs or force them to retreat into rivers while attacking from both banks . 

 The conflict lasted for over 150 years and followed the pattern of British settlement in Australia . Beginning in New South Wales with the arrival of the first Europeans in May 1788 , it continued in Sydney and its surrounds until the 1820s . As the frontier moved west so did the conflict , pushing into outback New South Wales in the 1840s . In Tasmania , fighting can be traced from 1804 to the 1830s , while in Victoria and the southern parts of South Australia , the majority of the violence occurred during the 1830s and 1840s . The south @-@ west of Western Australia experienced warfare from 1829 to 1850 . The war in Queensland began in the area around Brisbane in the 1840s and continued until 1860 , moving to central Queensland in the 1850s and 1860s , and then to northern Queensland from the 1860s to 1900 . In Western Australia , the violence moved north with European settlement , reaching the Kimberley region by 1880 , with violent clashes continuing until the 1920s . In the Northern Territory conflict lasted even later still , especially in central Australia , continuing from the 1880s to the 1930s . One estimate of casualties places European deaths at 2 @,@ 500 , while at least 20 @,@ 000 Aborigines are believed to have perished . Far more devastating though was the effect of disease which significantly reduced the Aboriginal population by the beginning of the 20th century ; a fact which may also have limited their ability to resist . 


 = = = New Zealand Wars , 1861 – 64 = = = 



 = = = = Taranaki War = = = = 


 In 1861 , the Victorian ship HMCSS Victoria was dispatched to help the New Zealand colonial government in its war against Māori in Taranaki . Victoria was subsequently used for patrol duties and logistic support , although a number of personnel were involved in actions against Māori fortifications . One sailor died from an accidental gunshot wound during the deployment . 


 = = = = Invasion of the Waikato = = = = 


 In late 1863 , the New Zealand government requested troops to assist in the invasion of the Waikato province against the Māori . Promised settlement on confiscated land , more than 2 @,@ 500 Australians ( over half of whom were from Victoria ) were recruited to form four Waikato Regiments . Other Australians became scouts in the Company of Forest Rangers . Despite experiencing arduous conditions the Australians were not heavily involved in battle , and were primarily used for patrolling and garrison duties . Australians were involved in actions at Matarikoriko , Pukekohe East , Titi Hill , Ōrākau and Te Ranga . Fewer than 20 were believed to have been killed in action . The conflict was over by 1864 , and the Waikato Regiments disbanded in 1867 . However , many of the soldiers who had chosen to claim farmland at the cessation of hostilities had drifted to the towns and cities by the end of the decade , while many others had returned to Australia . 


 = = = Colonial military forces , 1870 – 1901 = = = 


 From 1870 until 1901 , each of the six colonial governments was responsible for their own defence . The colonies had gained responsible government between 1855 and 1890 , and while the Colonial Office in London retained control of some affairs , the Governor of the each colony was required to raise their own colonial militia . To do this , they were granted the authority from the British crown to raise military and naval forces . Initially these were militias in support of British regulars , but when military support for the colonies ended in 1870 , the colonies assumed their own defence responsibilities . The colonial military forces included unpaid volunteer militia , paid citizen soldiers , and a small permanent component . They were mainly infantry , cavalry and mounted infantry , and were neither housed in barracks nor subject to full military discipline . Even after significant reforms in the 1870s — including the expansion of the permanent forces to include engineer and artillery units — they remained too small and unbalanced to be considered armies in the modern sense . By 1885 , the forces numbered 21 @,@ 000 men . Although they could not be compelled to serve overseas many volunteers subsequently did see action in a number conflicts of the British Empire during the 19th century , with the colonies raising contingents to serve in Sudan , South Africa and China . 

 Despite a reputation of colonial inferiority , many of the locally raised units were highly organised , disciplined , professional , and well trained . During this period , defences in Australia mainly revolved around static defence by combined infantry and artillery , based on garrisoned coastal forts . However , by the 1890s , improved railway communications between the mainland eastern colonies led Major General James Edwards — who had recently completed a survey of colonial military forces — to the belief that the colonies could be defended by the rapid mobilisation of brigades of infantry . As a consequence he called for a restructure of defences , and defensive agreements to be made between the colonies . Edwards argued for the colonial forces to be federated and for professional units — obliged to serve anywhere in the South Pacific — to replace the volunteer forces . These views found support in the influential New South Wales Commandant , Major General Edward Hutton , however suspicions held by the smaller colonies towards New South Wales and Victoria stifled the proposal . These reforms remaining unresolved however , and defence issues were generally given little attention in the debate on the political federation of the colonies . 

 With the exception of Western Australia , the colonies also operated their own navies . In 1856 , Victoria received its own naval vessel , HMCSS Victoria , and its deployment to New Zealand in 1860 during the First Taranaki War marked the first occasion that an Australian warship had been deployed overseas . The colonial navies were expanded greatly in the mid @-@ 1880s and consisted of a number of gunboats and torpedo @-@ boats for the defence of harbours and rivers , as well as naval brigades to man vessels and forts . Victoria became the most powerful of all the colonial navies , with the ironclad HMVS Cerberus in service from 1870 , as well as the steam @-@ sail warship HMS Nelson on loan from the Royal Navy , three small gunboats and five torpedo @-@ boats . New South Wales formed a Naval Brigade in 1863 and by the start of the 20th century had two small torpedo @-@ boats and a corvette . The Queensland Maritime Defence Force was established in 1885 , while South Australia operated a single ship , HMCS Protector . Tasmania had also a small Torpedo Corps , while Western Australia 's only naval defences included the Fremantle Naval Artillery . Naval personnel from New South Wales and Victoria took part in the suppression of the Boxer Rebellion in China in 1900 , while HMCS Protector was sent by South Australia but saw no action . The separate colonies maintained control over their military and naval forces until Federation in 1901 , when they were amalgamated and placed under the control of the new Commonwealth of Australia . 


 = = = Sudan , 1885 = = = 


 During the early years of the 1880s , an Egyptian regime in the Sudan , backed by the British , came under threat from rebellion under the leadership of native Muhammad Ahmad ( or Ahmed ) , known as Mahdi to his followers . In 1883 , as part of the Mahdist War , the Egyptians sent an army to deal with the revolt , but they were defeated and faced a difficult campaign of extracting their forces . The British instructed the Egyptians to abandon the Sudan , and sent General Charles Gordon to co @-@ ordinate the evacuation , but he was killed in January 1885 . When news of his death arrived in New South Wales in February 1885 , the government offered to send forces and meet the contingent 's expenses . The New South Wales Contingent consisted of an infantry battalion of 522 men and 24 officers , and an artillery battery of 212 men and sailed from Sydney on 3 March 1885 . 

 The contingent arrived in Suakin on 29 March and were attached to a brigade that consisted of Scots , Grenadier and Coldstream Guards . They subsequently marched for Tamai in a large " square " formation made up of 10 @,@ 000 men . Reaching the village , they burned huts and returned to Suakin : three Australians were wounded in minor fighting . Most of the contingent was then sent to work on a railway line that was being laid across the desert towards Berber , on the Nile . The Australians were then assigned to guard duties , but soon a camel corps was raised and 50 men volunteered . They rode on a reconnaissance to Takdul on 6 May and were heavily involved in a skirmish during which more than 100 Arabs were killed or captured . On 15 May , they made one last sortie to bury the dead from the fighting of the previous March . Meanwhile , the artillery were posted at Handoub and drilled for a month , but they soon rejoined the camp at Suakin . 

 Eventually the British government decided that the campaign in Sudan was not worth the effort required and left a garrison in Suakin . The New South Wales Contingent sailed for home on 17 May , arriving in Sydney on 19 June 1885 . Approximately 770 Australians served in Sudan ; nine subsequently died of disease during the return journey while three had been wounded during the campaign . 


 = = = Second Boer War , 1899 – 1902 = = = 


 British encroachment into areas of South Africa already settled by the Afrikaner Boers and the competition for resources and land that developed between them as a result , led to the Second Boer War in 1899 . Pre @-@ empting the deployment of British forces , the Afrikaner Republics of the Orange Free State and the Transvaal Republic under President Paul Kruger declared war on 11 October 1899 , striking deep into the British territories of Natal and the Cape Colony . After the outbreak of war , plans for the dispatch of a combined Australian force were subsequently set aside by the British War Office and each of the six colonial governments sent separate contingents to serve with British formations , with two squadrons each of 125 men from New South Wales and Victoria , and one each from the other colonies . The first troops arrived three weeks later , with the New South Wales Lancers — who had been training in England before the war , hurriedly diverted to South Africa . On 22 November , the Lancers came under fire for the first time near Belmont , and they subsequently forced their attackers to withdraw after inflicting significant casualties on them . 

 Following a series of minor victories , the British suffered a major setback during Black Week between 10 – 17 December 1899 , although no Australian units were involved . The first contingents of infantry from Victoria , South Australia , Western Australia , and Tasmania arrived in Cape Town on 26 November and were designated the Australian Regiment under the command of Colonel John Charles Hoad . With a need for increased mobility , they were soon converted into mounted infantry . Further units from Queensland and New South Wales arrived in December and were soon committed to the front . The first casualties occurred soon after at Sunnyside on 1 January 1900 , after 250 Queensland Mounted Infantry and a column of Canadians , British and artillery attacked a Boer laager at Belmont . Troopers David McLeod and Victor Jones were killed when their patrol clashed with the Boer forward sentries . Regardless , the Boers were surprised and during two hours of heavy fighting , more than 50 were killed and another 40 taken prisoner . Five hundred Queenslanders and the New South Wales Lancers subsequently took part in the Siege of Kimberley in February 1900 . 

 Despite serious set @-@ backs at Colenso , Stormberg , Magersfontein , and Spion Kop in January — and with Ladysmith still under siege — the British mounted a five division counter @-@ invasion of the Orange Free State in February . The attacking force included a division of cavalry commanded by Lieutenant General John French with the New South Wales Lancers , Queensland Mounted Infantry and New South Wales Army Medical Corps attached . First , Kimberley was relieved following the battles of Modder River and Magersfontein , and the retreating Boers defeated at Paardeberg , with the New South Wales Mounted Rifles locating the Boer general , Piet Cronjé . The British entered Bloemfontein on 13 March 1900 , while Ladysmith was relieved . Disease began to take its toll and scores of men died . Still the advance continued , with the drive to Pretoria in May including more than 3 @,@ 000 Australians . Johannesburg fell on 30 May , and the Boers withdrew from Pretoria on 3 June . The New South Wales Mounted Rifles and Western Australians saw action again at Diamond Hill on 12 June . Mafeking was relieved on 17 May . 

 Following the defeat of the Afrikaner republics still the Boers held out , forming small commando units and conducting a campaign of guerrilla warfare to disrupt British troop movements and lines of supply . This new phase of resistance led to further recruiting in the Australian colonies and the raising of the Bushmen 's Contingents , with these soldiers usually being volunteers with horse @-@ riding and shooting skills , but little military experience . After Federation in 1901 , eight Australian Commonwealth Horse battalions of the newly created Australian Army were also sent to South Africa , although they saw little fighting before the war ended . Some Australians later joined local South African irregular units , instead of returning home after discharge . These soldiers were part of the British Army , and were subject to British military discipline . Such units included the Bushveldt Carbineers which gained notoriety as the unit in which Harry " Breaker " Morant and Peter Handcock served in before their court martial and execution for war crimes . 

 With the guerrillas requiring supplies , Koos de la Rey lead a force of 3 @,@ 000 Boers against Brakfontein , on the Elands River in Western Transvaal . The post held a large quantity of stores and was defended by 300 Australians and 200 Rhodesians . The attack began on 4 August 1900 with heavy shelling causing 32 casualties . During the night the defenders dug in , enduring shelling and rifle fire . A relief force was stopped by the Boers , while a second column turned back believing that the post had already been relieved . The siege lasted 11 days , during which more than 1 @,@ 800 shells were fired into the post . After calls to surrender were ignored by the defenders , and not prepared to risk a frontal attack , the Boers eventually retired . The Siege of Elands River was one of the major achievements of the Australians during the war , with the post finally relieved on 16 August . 

 In response the British adopted counter @-@ insurgency tactics , including a scorched earth policy involving the burning of houses and crops , the establishment of concentration camps for Boer women and children , and a system of blockhouses and field obstacles to limit Boer mobility and to protect railway communications . Such measures required considerable expenditure , and caused much bitterness towards the British , however they soon yielded results . By mid @-@ 1901 , the bulk of the fighting was over , and British mounted units would ride at night to attack Boer farmhouses or encampments , overwhelming them with superior numbers . Indicative of warfare in last months of 1901 , the New South Wales Mounted Rifles travelled 1 @,@ 814 miles ( 2 @,@ 919 km ) and were involved in 13 skirmishes , killing 27 Boers , wounding 15 , and capturing 196 for the loss of five dead and 19 wounded . Other notable Australian actions included Slingersfontein , Pink Hill , Rhenosterkop and Haartebeestefontein . 

 Australians were not always successful however , suffering a number of heavy losses late in the war . On 12 June 1901 , the 5th Victorian Mounted Rifles lost 19 killed and 42 wounded at Wilmansrust , near Middleburg after poor security allowed a force of 150 Boers to surprise them . On 30 October 1901 , Victorians of the Scottish Horse Regiment also suffered heavy casualties at Gun Hill , although 60 Boers were also killed in the engagement . Meanwhile , at Onverwacht on 4 January 1902 , the 5th Queensland Imperial Bushmen lost 13 killed and 17 wounded . Ultimately the Boers were defeated , and the war ended on 31 May 1902 . In all 16 @,@ 175 Australians served in South Africa , and perhaps another 10 @,@ 000 enlisted as individuals in Imperial units ; casualties included 251 killed in action , 267 died of disease and 43 missing in action , while a further 735 were wounded . Six Australians were awarded the Victoria Cross . 


 = = = Boxer Rebellion , 1900 – 01 = = = 


 The Boxer Rebellion in China began in 1900 , and a number of western nations — including many European powers , the United States , and Japan — soon sent forces as part of the China Field Force to protect their interests . In June , the British government sought permission from the Australian colonies to dispatch ships from the Australian Squadron to China . The colonies also offered to assist further , but as most of their troops were still engaged in South Africa , they had to rely on naval forces for manpower . The force dispatched was a modest one , with Britain accepting 200 men from Victoria , 260 from New South Wales and the South Australian ship HMCS Protector , under the command of Captain William Creswell . Most of these forces were made up of naval brigade reservists , who had been trained in both ship handling and soldiering to fulfil their coastal defence role . Amongst the naval contingent from New South Wales were 200 naval officers and sailors and 50 permanent soldiers headquartered at Victoria Barracks , Sydney who originally enlisted for the Second Boer War . The soldiers were keen to go to China but refused to be enlisted as sailors , while the New South Wales Naval Brigade objected to having soldiers in their ranks . The Army and Navy compromised and titled the contingent the NSW Marine Light Infantry . 

 The contingents from New South Wales and Victoria sailed for China on 8 August 1900 . Arriving in Tientsin , the Australians provided 300 men to an 8 @,@ 000 @-@ strong multinational force tasked with capturing the Chinese forts at Pei Tang , which dominated a key railway . They arrived too late to take part in the battle , but were involved in the attack on the fortress at Pao @-@ ting Fu , where the Chinese government was believed to have found asylum after Peking was captured by western forces . The Victorians joined a force of 7 @,@ 500 men on a ten @-@ day march to the fort , once again only to find that it had already surrendered . The Victorians then garrisoned Tientsin and the New South Wales contingent undertook garrison duties in Peking . HMCS Protector was mostly used for survey , transport , and courier duties in the Gulf of Chihli , before departing in November . The naval brigades remained during the winter , unhappily performing policing and guard duties , as well as working as railwaymen and fire @-@ fighters . They left China in March 1901 , having played only a minor role in a few offensives and punitive expeditions and in the restoration of civil order . Six Australians died from sickness and injury , but none were killed as a result of enemy action . 


 = = Australian military forces at Federation , 1901 = = 


 The Commonwealth of Australia came into existence on 1 January 1901 as a result of the federation of the Australian colonies . Under the Constitution of Australia , defence responsibility was now vested in the new federal government . The co @-@ ordination of Australia @-@ wide defensive efforts in the face of Imperial German interest in the Pacific Ocean was one of driving forces behind federalism , and the Department of Defence immediately came into being as a result , while the Commonwealth Military Forces ( early forerunner of the Australian Army ) and Commonwealth Naval Force were also soon established . 

 The Australian Commonwealth Military Forces came into being on 1 March 1901 and all the colonial forces — including those still in South Africa — became part of the new force . 28 @,@ 923 colonial soldiers , including 1 @,@ 457 professional soldiers , 18 @,@ 603 paid militia and 8 @,@ 863 unpaid volunteers , were subsequently transferred . The individual units continued to be administered under the various colonial Acts until the Defence Act 1903 brought all the units under one piece of legislation . This Act also prevented the raising of standing infantry units and specified that militia forces could not be used in industrial disputes or serve outside Australia . However , the majority of soldiers remained in militia units , known as the Citizen Military Forces ( CMF ) . Major General Sir Edward Hutton — a former commander of the New South Wales Military Forces — subsequently became the first commander of the Commonwealth Military Forces on 26 December and set to work devising an integrated structure for the new army . In 1911 , following a report by Lord Kitchener the Royal Military College , Duntroon was established , as was a system of universal National Service . 

 Prior to federation each self @-@ governing colony had operated its own naval force . These navies were small and lacked blue water capabilities , forcing the separate colonies to subsidise the cost of a British naval squadron in their waters for decades . The colonies maintained control over their respective navies until 1 March 1901 , when the Commonwealth Naval Force was created . This new force also lacked blue water capable ships , and ultimately did not lead to a change in Australian naval policy . In 1907 Prime Minister Alfred Deakin and Creswell , while attending the Imperial Conference in London , sought the British Government 's agreement to end the subsidy system and develop an Australian navy . The Admiralty rejected and resented the challenge , but suggested diplomatically that a small fleet of destroyers and submarines would be sufficient . Deakin was unimpressed , and in 1908 invited the American Great White Fleet to visit Australia . This visit fired public enthusiasm for a modern navy and in part led to the order of two 700 @-@ ton River @-@ class destroyers . The surge in German naval construction prompted the Admiralty to change their position however and the Royal Australian Navy was subsequently formed in 1911 , absorbing the Commonwealth Naval Force . On 4 October 1913 , the new fleet steamed through Sydney Heads , consisting of the battlecruiser HMAS Australia , three light cruisers , and three destroyers , while several other ships were still under construction . And as a consequence the navy entered the First World War as a formidable force . 

 The Australian Flying Corps ( AFC ) was established as part of the Commonwealth Military Forces in 1912 , prior to the formation of the Australian Military Forces in 1916 and was later separated in 1921 to form the Royal Australian Air Force , making it the second oldest air force in the world . Regardless , the service branches were not linked by a single chain of command however , and each reported to their own minister and had separate administrative arrangements and government departments . 


 = = First World War , 1914 – 18 = = 



 = = = Outbreak of hostilities = = = 


 When Britain declared war on Germany at the start of the First World War , the Australian government rapidly followed suit , with Prime Minister Joseph Cook declaring on 5 August 1914 that " ... when the Empire is at war , so also is Australia " and reflecting the sentiment of many Australians that any declaration of war by Britain automatically included Australia . This was itself in part due to the large number of British @-@ born citizens and first generation Anglo @-@ Australians that made up the Australian population at the time . Indeed , by the end of the war almost 20 % of those who served in the Australian forces had been born in Britain . 

 As the existing militia forces were unable to serve overseas under the provisions of the Defence Act 1903 , an all @-@ volunteer expeditionary force known as the Australian Imperial Force ( AIF ) was formed and recruitment began on 10 August 1914 . The government pledged 20 @,@ 000 men , organised as one infantry division and one light horse brigade plus supporting units . Enlistment and organisation was primarily regionally based and was undertaken under mobilisation plans drawn up in 1912 . The first commander was Major General William Bridges , who also assumed command of the 1st Division . Throughout the course of the conflict Australian efforts were predominantly focused upon the ground war , although small air and naval forces were also committed . 


 = = = Occupation of German New Guinea = = = 


 Following the outbreak of war Australian forces moved quickly to reduce the threat to shipping posed by the proximity of Germany 's Pacific colonies . The Australian Naval and Military Expeditionary Force ( AN & MEF ) , a 2000 @-@ man volunteer force — separate from the AIF — and consisting of an infantry battalion plus 500 naval reservists and ex @-@ sailors , was rapidly formed under the command of William Holmes . The objectives of the force were the wireless stations on Nauru , and those at Yap in the Caroline Islands , and at Rabaul in German New Guinea . The force reached Rabaul on 11 September 1914 and occupied it the next day , encountering only brief resistance from the German and native defenders during fighting at Bita Paka and Toma . German New Guinea surrendered on 17 September 1914 . Australian losses were light , including six killed during the fighting , but were compounded by the mysterious loss offshore of the submarine AE1 with all 35 men aboard . 


 = = = Gallipoli = = = 


 The AIF departed by ship in a single convoy from Albany on 1 November 1914 . During the journey one of the convoy 's naval escorts — HMAS Sydney — engaged and destroyed the German cruiser SMS Emden at the Battle of Cocos on 8 November , in the first ship @-@ to @-@ ship action involving the Royal Australian Navy . Although originally bound for England to undergo further training and then for employment on the Western Front , the Australians were instead sent to British @-@ controlled Egypt to pre @-@ empt any Turkish attack against the strategically important Suez Canal , and with a view to opening another front against the Central Powers . 

 Aiming to knock Turkey out of the war the British then decided to stage an amphibious lodgement at Gallipoli and following a period of training and reorganisation the Australians were included amongst the British , Indian and French forces committed to the campaign . The combined Australian and New Zealand Army Corps ( ANZAC ) — commanded by British general William Birdwood — subsequently landed at Anzac Cove on the Gallipoli peninsula on 25 April 1915 . Although promising to transform the war if successful , the Gallipoli Campaign was ill @-@ conceived and ultimately lasted eight months of bloody stalemate , without achieving its objectives . Australian casualties totalled 26 @,@ 111 , including 8 @,@ 141 killed . 

 For Australians and New Zealanders the Gallipoli campaign came to symbolise an important milestone in the emergence of both nations as independent actors on the world stage and the development of a sense of national identity . Today , the date of the initial landings , 25 April , is known as Anzac Day in Australia and New Zealand and every year thousands of people gather at memorials in both nations , as well as Turkey , to honour the bravery and sacrifice of the original Anzacs , and of all those who have subsequently lost their lives in war . 


 = = = Egypt and Palestine = = = 


 After the withdrawal from Gallipoli the Australians returned to Egypt and the AIF underwent a major expansion . In 1916 the infantry began to move to France while the cavalry units remained in the Middle East to fight the Turks . Australian troops of the Anzac Mounted Division and the Australian Mounted Division saw action in all the major battles of the Sinai and Palestine Campaign , playing a pivotal role in fighting the Turkish troops that were threatening British control of Egypt . The Australian 's first saw combat during the Senussi uprising in the Libyan Desert and the Nile Valley , during which the combined British forces successfully put down the primitive pro @-@ Turkish Islamic sect with heavy casualties . The Anzac Mounted Division subsequently saw considerable action in the Battle of Romani against the Turkish between 3 – 5 August 1916 , with the Turks eventually pushed back . Following this victory the British forces went on the offensive in the Sinai , although the pace of the advance was governed by the speed by which the railway and water pipeline could be constructed from the Suez Canal . Rafa was captured on 9 January 1917 , while the last of the small Turkish garrisons in the Sinai were eliminated in February . 

 The advance entered Palestine and an initial , unsuccessful attempt was made to capture Gaza on 26 March 1917 , while a second and equally unsuccessful attempt was launched on 19 April . A third assault occurred between 31 October and 7 November and this time both the Anzac Mounted Division and the Australian Mounted Division took part . The battle was a complete success for the British , over @-@ running the Gaza @-@ Beersheba line and capturing 12 @,@ 000 Turkish soldiers . The critical moment was the capture of Beersheba on the first day , after the Australian 4th Light Horse Brigade charged more than 4 miles ( 6 @.@ 4 km ) . The Turkish trenches were overrun , with the Australians capturing the wells at Beersheeba and securing the valuable water they contained along with over 700 prisoners for the loss of 31 killed and 36 wounded . Later , Australian troops assisted in pushing the Turkish forces out of Palestine and took part in actions at Mughar Ridge , Jerusalem and the Megiddo . The Turkish government surrendered on 30 October 1918 . Units of the Light Horse were subsequently used to help put down a nationalist revolt in Egypt in 1919 and did so with efficiency and brutality , although they suffered a number of fatalities in the process . 

 Meanwhile , the AFC had undergone remarkable development , and its independence as a separate national force was unique among the Dominions . Deploying just a single aircraft to German New Guinea in 1914 , the first operational flight did not occur until 27 May 1915 however , when the Mesopotamian Half Flight was called upon to assist in protecting British oil interests in Iraq . The AFC was soon expanded and four squadrons later saw action in Egypt , Palestine and on the Western Front , where they performed well . 


 = = = Western Front = = = 


 Five infantry divisions of the AIF saw action in France and Belgium , leaving Egypt in March 1916 . I Anzac Corps subsequently took up positions in a quiet sector south of Armentières on 7 April 1916 and for the next two and a half years the AIF participated in most of the major battles on the Western Front , earning a formidable reputation . Although spared from the disastrous first day of the Battle of the Somme , within weeks four Australian divisions had been committed . The 5th Division , positioned on the left flank , was the first in action during the Battle of Fromelles on 19 July 1916 , suffering 5 @,@ 533 casualties in a single day . The 1st Division entered the line on 23 July , assaulting Pozieres , and by the time that they were relieved by the 2nd Division on 27 July , they had suffered 5 @,@ 286 casualties . Mouquet Farm was attacked in August , with casualties totalling 6 @,@ 300 men . By the time the AIF was withdrawn from the Somme to re @-@ organise , they had suffered 23 @,@ 000 casualties in just 45 days . 

 In March 1917 , the 2nd and 5th Divisions pursued the Germans back to the Hindenburg Line , capturing the town of Bapaume . On 11 April , the 4th Division assaulted the Hindenburg Line in the disastrous First Battle of Bullecourt , losing over 3 @,@ 000 casualties and 1 @,@ 170 captured . On 15 April , the 1st and 2nd Divisions were counter @-@ attacked near Lagnicourt and were forced to abandon the town , before recapturing it again . The 2nd Division then took part in the Second Battle of Bullecourt , beginning on 3 May , and succeeded in taking sections of the Hindenburg Line and holding them until relieved by the 1st Division . Finally , on 7 May the 5th Division relieved the 1st , remaining in the line until the battle ended in mid @-@ May . Combined these efforts cost 7 @,@ 482 Australian casualties . 

 On 7 June 1917 , the II Anzac Corps — along with two British corps — launched an operation in Flanders to eliminate a salient south of Ypres . The attack commenced with the detonation of a million pounds ( 454 @,@ 545 kg ) of explosives that had been placed underneath the Messines ridge , destroying the German trenches . The advance was virtually unopposed , and despite strong German counterattacks the next day , it succeeded . Australian casualties during the Battle of Messines included nearly 6 @,@ 800 men . I Anzac Corps then took part in the Third Battle of Ypres in Belgium as part of the campaign to capture the Gheluvelt Plateau , between September and November 1917 . Individual actions took place at Menin Road , Polygon Wood , Broodseinde , Poelcappelle and Passchendaele and over the course of eight weeks fighting the Australians suffered 38 @,@ 000 casualties . 

 On 21 March 1918 the German Army launched its Spring Offensive in a last @-@ ditched effort to win the war , unleashing sixty @-@ three divisions over a 70 miles ( 110 km ) front . As the Allies fell back the 3rd and 4th Divisions were rushed south to Amiens on the Somme . The offensive lasted for the next five months and all five AIF divisions in France were engaged in the attempt to stem the tide . By late May the Germans had pushed to within 50 miles ( 80 km ) of Paris . During this time the Australians fought at Dernacourt , Morlancourt , Villers @-@ Bretonneux , Hangard Wood , Hazebrouck , and Hamel . At Hamel the commander of the Australian Corps , Lieutenant General John Monash , successfully used combined arms — including aircraft , artillery and armour — in an attack for the first time . 

 The German offensive ground to a halt in mid @-@ July and a brief lull followed , during which the Australians undertook a series of raids , known as Peaceful Penetrations . The Allies soon launched their own offensive — the Hundred Days Offensive — ultimately ending the war . Beginning on 8 August 1918 the offensive included four Australian divisions striking at Amiens . Using the combined arms techniques developed earlier at Hamel , significant gains were made on what became known as the " Black Day " of the German Army . The offensive continued for four months , and during Second Battle of the Somme the Australian Corps fought actions at Lihons , Etinehem , Proyart , Chuignes , and Mont St Quentin , before their final engagement of the war on 5 October 1918 at Montbrehain . The AIF was subsequently out of the line when the armistice was declared on 11 November 1918 . 

 In all 416 @,@ 806 Australians enlisted in the AIF during the war and 333 @,@ 000 served overseas . 61 @,@ 508 were killed and another 155 @,@ 000 were wounded ( a total casualty rate of 65 % ) . The financial cost to the Australian government was calculated at £ 376 @,@ 993 @,@ 052 . Two referendums on conscription for overseas service had been defeated during the war , preserving the volunteer status of the Australian force , but stretching the reserves of manpower available , particularly towards the end of the fighting . Consequently , Australia remained one of only two armies on either side not to resort to conscription during the war . 

 The war had a profound effect on Australian society in other ways also . Indeed , for many Australians the nation 's involvement is seen as a symbol of its emergence as an international actor , while many of the notions of Australian character and nationhood that exist today have their origins in the war . 64 Australians were awarded the Victoria Cross during the First World War . 


 = = Inter @-@ war years = = 



 = = = Russian Civil War , 1918 – 19 = = = 


 The Russian Civil War began after the Russian provisional government collapsed and the Bolshevik party assumed power in October 1917 . Following the end of the First World War , the western powers — including Britain — intervened , giving half @-@ hearted support to the pro @-@ tsarist , anti @-@ Bolshevik White Russian forces . Although the Australian government refused to commit forces , many Australians serving with the British Army became involved in the fighting . A small number served as advisors to White Russian units with the North Russian Expeditionary Force ( NREF ) . Awaiting repatriation in England , about 150 Australians subsequently enlisted in the British North Russia Relief Force ( NRRF ) , where they were involved in a number of sharp battles and several were killed . 

 The Royal Australian Navy destroyer HMAS Swan was also briefly engaged , carrying out an intelligence gathering mission in the Black Sea in late 1918 . Other Australians served as advisers with the British Military Mission to the White Russian General , Anton Denikin in South Russia , while several more advised Admiral Aleksandr Kolchak in Siberia . Later , they also served in Mesopotamia as part of Dunsterforce and the Malleson Mission , although these missions were aimed at preventing Turkish access to the Middle East and India , and did little fighting . 

 Although the motivations of those Australian 's that volunteered to fight in Russia can only be guessed at , it seems unlikely to have been political . Regardless , they confirmed a reputation for audacity and courage , winning the only two Victoria Crosses of the land campaign , despite their small numbers . Yet Australian involvement was barely noticed at home at the time and made little difference to the outcome of the war . Total casualties included 10 killed and 40 wounded , with most deaths being from disease during operations in Mesopotamia . 


 = = = Malaita , 1927 = = = 


 In October 1927 , HMAS Adelaide was called to the British Solomon Islands Protectorate as part of a punitive expedition in response to the killing of a district officer and sixteen others by Kwaio natives at Sinalagu on the island of Malaita on 3 October , known as the Malaita massacre . Arriving at Tulagi on 14 October , the ship proceeded to Malaita to protect the landing of three platoons of troops , then remained in the area to provide personnel support for the soldiers as they searched for the killers . The ship 's personnel took no part in operations ashore , providing only logistic and communications support . Adelaide returned to Australia on 23 November . 


 = = = Spanish Civil War , 1936 – 39 = = = 


 A small number of Australian volunteers fought on both sides of the Spanish Civil War , although they predominantly supported the Spanish Republic through the International Brigades . The Australians were subsequently allocated to the battalions of other nationalities , such as the British Battalion and the Lincoln Battalion , rather than forming their own units . Most were radicals motivated by ideological reasons , while a number were Spanish @-@ born migrants who returned to fight in their country of origin . At least 66 Australians volunteered , with only one — Nugent Bull , a conservative catholic who was later killed serving in the RAF during the Second World War — known to have fought for General Francisco Franco 's Nationalist forces . 

 While a celebrated cause for the Australian left — particularly the Communist Party of Australia and the trade union movement — the war failed to spark particular public interest and the government maintained its neutrality . Australian opposition to the Republican cause was marshalled by B.A. Santamaria on an anti @-@ communist basis , rather than a pro @-@ Nationalist basis . Equally , although individual right wing Australians may have served with the Nationalist rebels , they received no public support . Service in a foreign armed force was illegal at the time , however as the government received no reports of Australians travelling to Spain to enlist , no action was taken . Consequently , returned veterans were neither recognised by the government or the Returned and Services League of Australia ( RSL ) . Although the number of Australian volunteers was relatively small compared to those from other countries , at least 14 were killed . 


 = = Second World War , 1939 – 45 = = 



 = = = Europe and the Middle East = = = 


 Australia entered the Second World War on 3 September 1939 . At the time of the declaration of war against Germany the Australian military was small and unready for war . Recruiting for a Second Australian Imperial Force ( 2nd AIF ) began in mid @-@ September . While there was no rush of volunteers like the First World War , a high proportion of Australian men of military age had enlisted by mid @-@ 1940 . Four infantry divisions were formed during 1939 and 1940 , three of which were dispatched to the Middle East . The RAAF 's resources were initially mainly devoted to training airmen for service with the Commonwealth air forces through the Empire Air Training Scheme ( EATS ) , through which almost 28 @,@ 000 Australians were trained during the war . 

 The Australian military 's first major engagements of the war were against Italian forces in the Mediterranean and North Africa . During 1940 the light cruiser HMAS Sydney and five elderly destroyers ( dubbed the " Scrap Iron Flotilla " by Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels — a title proudly accepted by the ships ) took part in a series of operations as part of the British Mediterranean Fleet , and sank several Italian warships . The Army first saw action in January 1941 , when the 6th Division formed part of the Commonwealth forces during Operation Compass . The division assaulted and captured Bardia on 5 January and Tobruk on 22 January , with tens of thousands of Italian troops surrendering at both towns . The 6th Division took part in the pursuit of the Italian Army and captured Benghazi on 4 February . In late February it was withdrawn for service in Greece , and was replaced by the 9th Division . 

 The Australian forces in the Mediterranean endured a number of campaigns during 1941 . During April , the 6th Division , other elements of I Corps and several Australian warships formed part of the Allied force which unsuccessfully attempted to defend Greece from German invasion during the Battle of Greece . At the end of this campaign , the 6th Division was evacuated to Egypt and Crete . The force at Crete subsequently fought in the Battle of Crete during May , which also ended in defeat for the Allies . Over 5 @,@ 000 Australians were captured in these campaigns , and the 6th Division required a long period of rebuilding before it was again ready for combat . The Germans and Italians also went on the offensive in North Africa at the end of March and drove the Commonwealth force there back to near the border with Egypt . The 9th Division and a brigade of the 7th Division were besieged at Tobruk ; successfully defending the key port town until they were replaced by British units in October . During June , the main body of the 7th Division , a brigade of the 6th Division and the I Corps headquarters took part in the Syria @-@ Lebanon Campaign against the Vichy French . Resistance was stronger than expected ; Australians were involved in most of the fighting and sustained most of the casualties before the French capitulated in early July . 

 The majority of Australian units in the Mediterranean returned to Australia in early 1942 , after the outbreak of the Pacific War . The 9th Division was the largest unit to remain in the Middle East , and played a key role in the First Battle of El Alamein during June and the Second Battle of El Alamein in October . The division returned to Australia in early 1943 , but several RAAF squadrons and RAN warships took part in the subsequent Tunisia Campaign and the Italian Campaign from 1943 until the end of the war . 

 The RAAF 's role in the strategic air offensive in Europe formed Australia 's main contribution to the defeat of Germany . Approximately 13 @,@ 000 Australian airmen served in dozens of British and five Australian squadrons in RAF Bomber Command between 1940 and the end of the war . Australians took part in all of Bomber Command 's major offensives and suffered heavy losses during raids on German cities and targets in France . Australian aircrew in Bomber Command had one of the highest casualty rates of any part of the Australian military during the Second World War and sustained almost 20 percent of all Australian deaths in combat ; 3 @,@ 486 were killed and hundreds more were taken prisoner . Australian airmen in light bomber and fighter squadrons also participated in the liberation of Western Europe during 1944 and 1945 and two RAAF maritime patrol squadrons served in the Battle of the Atlantic . 


 = = = Asia and the Pacific = = = 


 From the 1920s Australia 's defence thinking was dominated by British Imperial defence policy , which was embodied by the " Singapore strategy " . This strategy involved the construction and defence of a major naval base at Singapore from which a large British fleet would respond to Japanese aggression in the region . To this end , a high proportion of Australian forces in Asia were concentrated in Malaya during 1940 and 1941 as the threat from Japan increased . However , as a result of the emphasis on co @-@ operation with Britain , relatively few Australian military units had been retained in Australia and the Asia @-@ Pacific region . Measures were taken to improve Australia 's defences as war with Japan loomed in 1941 , but these proved inadequate . In December 1941 , the Australian Army in the Pacific comprised the 8th Division , most of which was stationed in Malaya , and eight partially trained and equipped divisions in Australia . The RAAF was equipped with 373 aircraft , most of which were obsolete trainers , and the RAN had three cruisers and two destroyers in Australian waters . 

 The Australian military suffered a series of defeats during the early months of the Pacific War . The 8th Division and RAAF squadrons in Malaya formed a part of the British Commonwealth forces which were unable to stop a smaller Japanese invasion force which landed on 7 December . The British Commonwealth force withdrew to Singapore at the end of January , but was forced to surrender on 15 February after the Japanese captured much of the island . Smaller Australian forces were also overwhelmed and defeated during early 1942 at Rabaul , and in Ambon , Timor , and Java . The Australian town of Darwin was heavily bombed by the Japanese on 19 February , to prevent it from being used as an Allied base . Over 22 @,@ 000 Australians were taken prisoner in early 1942 and endured harsh conditions in Japanese captivity . The prisoners were subjected to malnutrition , denied medical treatment and frequently beaten and killed by their guards . As a result , 8 @,@ 296 Australian prisoners died in captivity . 

 The rapid Allied defeat in the Pacific caused many Australians to fear that the Japanese would invade the Australian mainland . While elements of the Imperial Japanese Navy proposed this in early 1942 , it was judged to be impossible by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters , which instead adopted a strategy of isolating Australia from the United States by capturing New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Fiji , Samoa , and New Caledonia . This fact was not known by the Allies at the time , and the Australian military was greatly expanded to meet the threat of invasion . Large numbers of United States Army and Army Air Forces units arrived in Australia in early 1942 , and the Australian military was placed under the overall command of General Douglas MacArthur in March . 

 Australians played a central role in the New Guinea campaign during 1942 and 1943 . After an attempt to land troops at Port Moresby was defeated in the Battle of the Coral Sea , the Japanese attempted to capture the strategically important town by advancing overland across the Owen Stanley Ranges and Milne Bay . Australian Army units defeated these offensives in the Kokoda Track campaign and Battle of Milne Bay with the support of the RAAF and USAAF . Australian and US Army units subsequently assaulted and captured the Japanese bases on the north coast of Papua in the hard @-@ fought Battle of Buna @-@ Gona . The Australian Army also defeated a Japanese attempt to capture the town of Wau in January 1943 and went onto the offensive in the Salamaua @-@ Lae campaign in April . In late 1943 , the 7th and 9th Divisions played an important role in Operation Cartwheel , when they landed to the east and west of Lae and secured the Huon Peninsula during the Huon Peninsula campaign and Finisterre Range campaign . 

 The Australian mainland came under attack during 1942 and 1943 . Japanese submarines operated off Australia from May to August 1942 and January to June 1943 . These attacks sought to cut the Allied supply lines between Australia and the US and Australia and New Guinea , but were unsuccessful . Japanese aircraft also conducted air raids against Allied bases in northern Australia which were being used to mount the North Western Area Campaign against Japanese positions in the Netherlands East Indies ( NEI ) . 

 Australia 's role in the Pacific War declined from 1944 . The increasing size of the US forces in the Pacific rendered the Australian military superfluous and labour shortages forced the Government to reduce the size of the armed forces to boost war production . Nevertheless , the Government wanted the Australian military to remain active , and agreed to MacArthur 's proposals that it be used in relatively unimportant campaigns . In late 1944 , Australian troops and RAAF squadrons replaced US garrisons in eastern New Guinea , New Britain , and Bougainville , and launched offensives aimed at destroying or containing the remaining Japanese forces there . In May 1945 , I Corps , the Australian First Tactical Air Force and USAAF and USN units began the Borneo Campaign , which continued until the end of the war . These campaigns contributed little to Japan 's defeat and remain controversial . 

 Following Japan 's surrender on 15 August 1945 Australia assumed responsibility for occupying much of Borneo and the eastern Netherlands East Indies until British and Dutch colonial rule was restored . Australian authorities also conducted a number of war crimes trials of Japanese personnel . 993 @,@ 000 Australians enlisted during the war , while 557 @,@ 000 served overseas . Casualties included 39 @,@ 767 killed and another 66 @,@ 553 were wounded . 20 Victoria Crosses were awarded to Australians . 


 = = Post @-@ war period = = 



 = = = Demobilisation and peace @-@ time defence arrangements = = = 


 The demobilisation of the Australian military following the end of the Second World War was completed in 1947 . Plans for post @-@ war defence arrangements were predicated on maintaining a relatively strong peacetime force . It was envisioned that the Royal Australian Navy maintaining a fleet that would include two light fleet carriers , two cruisers , six destroyers , 16 others ships in commission and another 52 in reserved . The Royal Australian Air Force would have a strength of 16 squadrons , including four manned by the Citizen Air Force . Meanwhile , in a significant departure from previous Australian defence policy which had previously relied on citizen forces , the Australian Army would include a permanent field force of 19 @,@ 000 regulars organised into a brigade of three infantry battalions with armoured support , serving alongside a part @-@ time force of 50 @,@ 000 men in the Citizen Military Forces . The Australian Regular Army was subsequently formed on 30 September 1947 , while the CMF was re @-@ raised on 1 July 1948 . 


 = = = Occupation of Japan , 1946 – 52 = = = 


 In the immediate post @-@ war period Australia contributed significant forces to the Allied occupation of Japan as part of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force ( BCOF ) , which included forces from Australia , Britain , India and New Zealand . At its height in 1946 the Australian component consisted of an infantry brigade , four warships and three fighter squadrons , totalling 13 @,@ 500 personnel . The Australian Army component initially consisted of the 34th Brigade which arrived in Japan in February 1946 and was based in Hiroshima Prefecture . The three infantry battalions raised for occupation duties were designated the 1st , 2nd and 3rd battalions of the Royal Australian Regiment in 1949 , and the 34th Brigade became the 1st Brigade when it returned to Australia in December 1948 , forming the basis of the post @-@ war Regular Army . From that time the Australian Army contribution to the occupation of Japan was reduced to a single under @-@ strength battalion . Australian forces remained until September 1951 when the BCOF ceased operations , although by the time the majority of units had been committed to the fighting on the Korean peninsular following the outbreak of the Korean War in 1950 . The RAAF component consisted of Nos. 76 , 77 and 82 Squadrons as part of No. 81 Wing RAAF flying P @-@ 51 Mustangs , initially based at Bofu from March 1946 , before transferring to Iwakuni in 1948 . However , by 1950 only No. 77 Squadron remained in Japan . A total of ten RAN warships served in Japan during this period , including HMA Ships Australia , Hobart , Shropshire , Arunta , Bataan , Culgoa , Murchison , Shoalhaven , Quadrant and Quiberon , while HMAS Ships Manoora , Westralia and Kanimbla also provided support . 


 = = Cold War = = 



 = = = Early planning and commitments = = = 


 During the early years of the Cold War , Australian defence planning assumed that in the event of the outbreak of a global war between the Western world and Eastern bloc countries it would need to contribute forces under collective security arrangements as part of the United Nations , or a coalition led by either the United States or Britain . The Middle East was considered the most likely area of operations for Australian forces , where they would most likely operate with British forces . Early commitments included the involvement of RAAF aircrew during the Berlin Airlift in 1948 – 49 and the deployment of No. 78 Wing RAAF to Malta in the Mediterranean from 1952 to 1954 . Meanwhile , defence preparedness initiatives included the introduction of a National Service Scheme in 1951 to provide manpower for the citizen forces of the Army , RAAF and RAN . 


 = = = Korean War , 1950 – 53 = = = 


 On 25 June 1950 , the North Korean Army ( KPA ) crossed the border into South Korea and advanced for the capital Seoul , which fell in less than a week . North Korean forces continued toward the port of Pusan and two days later the United States offered its assistance to South Korea . In response the United Nations Security Council requested members to assist in repelling the North Korean attack . Australia initially contributed P @-@ 51 Mustang fighter @-@ bomber aircraft from No. 77 Squadron RAAF and infantry from the 3rd Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( 3 RAR ) , both of which were stationed in Japan as part of the BCOF . In addition , it provided the majority of supply and support personnel to the British Commonwealth Forces Korea . The RAN frigate HMAS Shoalhaven , and the destroyer HMAS Bataan , were also committed . Later , an aircraft carrier strike group aboard HMAS Sydney was added to the force . 

 By the time 3 RAR arrived in Pusan on 28 September , the North Koreans were in retreat following the Inchon landings . As a part of the invasion force under the UN Supreme Commander , General Douglas MacArthur , the battalion moved north and was involved in its first major action at Battle of Yongju near Pyongyang on 22 October , before advancing towards the Yalu River . Further successful actions followed at Kujin on 25 – 26 October 1950 and at Chongju on 29 October 1950 . North Korean casualties were heavy , while Australian losses included their commanding officer , Lieutenant Colonel Charles Green , who was wounded in the stomach by artillery fire after the battle and succumbed to his wounds and died two days later on 1 November . Meanwhile , during the last weeks of October the Chinese had moved 18 divisions of the People 's Volunteer Army across the Yalu River to reinforce the remnants of the KPA . Undetected by US and South Korean intelligence , the 13th Army Group crossed the border on 16 October and penetrated up to 100 kilometres ( 62 mi ) into North Korea , and were reinforced in early November by 12 divisions from the 9th Army Group ; in total 30 divisions composed of 380 @,@ 000 men . 3 RAR fought its first action against the Chinese at Pakchon on 5 November . The fighting cost the battalion heavily and despite halting a Chinese division the new battalion commander was dismissed in the wake . Following the Chinese intervention , the UN forces were defeated in successive battles and 3 RAR was forced to withdraw to the 38th parallel . 

 A series of battles followed at Uijeongbu on 1 – 4 January 1951 , as the British and Australians occupied defensive positions in an attempt to secure the northern approaches to the South Korean capital . Further fighting occurred at Chuam @-@ ni on 14 – 17 February 1951 following another Chinese advance , and later at Maehwa @-@ San between 7 – 12 March 1951 as the UN resumed the offensive . Australian troops subsequently participated in two more major battles in 1951 , with the first taking place during fighting which later became known as the Battle of Kapyong . On 22 April , Chinese forces attacked the Kapyong valley and forced the South Korean defenders to withdraw . Australian and Canadian troops were ordered to halt this Chinese advance . After a night of fighting the Australians recaptured their positions , at the cost of 32 men killed and 59 wounded . In July 1951 , the Australian battalion became part of the combined Canadian , British , Australian , New Zealand , and Indian 1st Commonwealth Division . The second major battle took place during Operation Commando and occurred after the Chinese attacked a salient in a bend of the Imjin River . The 1st Commonwealth Division counter @-@ attacked on 3 October , capturing a number of objectives including Hill 355 and Hill 317 during the Battle of Maryang San ; after five days the Chinese retreated . Australian casualties included 20 dead and 104 wounded . 

 The belligerents then became locked in static trench warfare akin to the First World War , in which men lived in tunnels , redoubts , and sandbagged forts behind barbed wire defences . From 1951 until the end of the war , 3 RAR held trenches on the eastern side of the division 's positions in the hills northeast of the Imjin River . Across from them were heavily fortified Chinese positions . In March 1952 , Australia increased its ground commitment to two battalions , sending 1 RAR . This battalion remained in Korea for 12 months , before being replaced by 2 RAR in April 1953 . The Australians fought their last battle during 24 – 26 July 1953 , with 2 RAR holding off a concerted Chinese attack along the Samichon River and inflicting significant casualties for the loss of five killed and 24 wounded . Hostilities were suspended on 27 July 1953 . 17 @,@ 808 Australians served during the war , with 341 killed , 1 @,@ 216 wounded and 30 captured . 


 = = = Malayan Emergency , 1950 – 60 = = = 


 The Malayan Emergency was declared on 18 June 1948 , after three estate managers were murdered by members of the Malayan Communist Party ( MCP ) . Australian involvement began in June 1950 , when in response to a British request , six Lincolns from No. 1 Squadron and a flight of Dakotas from No. 38 Squadron arrived in Singapore to form part of the British Commonwealth Far East Air Force ( FEAF ) . The Dakotas were subsequently used on cargo runs , troop movement , as well as paratroop and leaflet drops , while the Lincoln bombers carried out bombing raids against the Communist Terrorist ( CT ) jungle bases . The RAAF were particularly successful , and in one such mission known as Operation Termite , five Lincoln bombers destroyed 181 communist camps , killed 13 communists and forced one into surrender , in a joint operation with the RAF and ground troops . The Lincolns were withdrawn in 1958 , and were replaced by Canberra bombers from No. 2 Squadron and CAC Sabres from No. 78 Wing . Based at RAAF Base Butterworth they also carried out a number ground attack missions against the guerrillas . 

 Australian ground forces were deployed to Malaya in October 1955 as part of the Far East Strategic Reserve . In January 1956 , the first Australian ground forces were deployed on Malaysian peninsula , consisting of the 2nd Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( 2 RAR ) . 2 RAR mainly participated in " mopping up " operations over the next 20 months , conducting extensive patrolling in and near the CT jungle bases , as part of 28th British Commonwealth Brigade . Contact with the enemy was infrequent and results small , achieving relatively few kills . 2 RAR left Malaysia October 1957 to be replaced by 3 RAR . 3 RAR underwent six weeks of jungle training and began driving MCP insurgents back into the jungle of Perak and Kedah . The new battalion extensively patrolled and was involved in food denial operations and ambushes . Again contact was limited , although 3 RAR had more success than its predecessor . By late 1959 , operations against the MCP were in their final phase , and most communists had been pushed back and across the Thailand border . 3 RAR left Malaysia October 1959 and was replaced by 1 RAR . Though patrolling the border 1 RAR did not make contact with the insurgents , and in October 1960 it was replaced by 2 RAR , which stayed in Malaysia until August 1963 . The Malayan Emergency officially ended on 31 July 1960 . 

 Australia also provided artillery and engineer support , along with an air @-@ field construction squadron . The Royal Australian Navy also served in Malayan waters , firing on suspected communist positions between 1956 and 1957 . The Emergency was the longest continued commitment in Australian military history ; 7 @,@ 000 Australians served and 51 died in Malaya — although only 15 were on operations — and another 27 were wounded . 


 = = = Military and Naval growth during the 1960s = = = 


 At the start of the 1960s , Prime Minister Robert Menzies greatly expanded the Australian military so that it could carry out the Government 's policy of " Forward Defence " in South East Asia . In 1964 , Menzies announced a large increase in defence spending . The strength of the Australian Army would be increased by 50 % over three years from 22 @,@ 000 to 33 @,@ 000 ; providing a full three @-@ brigade division with nine battalions . The RAAF and RAN would also both be increased by 25 % . In 1964 , conscription or National Service was re @-@ introduced under the National Service Act , for selected 20 @-@ year @-@ olds based on date of birth , for a period of two years ' continuous full @-@ time service ( the previous scheme having been suspended in 1959 ) . 

 In 1961 , three Charles F. Adams @-@ class destroyers were purchased from the United States to replace the ageing Q @-@ class destroyers . Traditionally , the RAN had purchased designs based on those of the Royal Navy and the purchase of American destroyers was significant . HMAS Perth and HMAS Hobart joined the fleet in 1965 , followed by HMAS Brisbane in 1967 . Other projects included the construction of six River @-@ class frigates , the conversion of the aircraft carrier HMAS Melbourne to an anti @-@ submarine role , the acquisition of ten Wessex helicopters , and the purchase of six Oberon @-@ class submarines . 

 The RAAF took delivery of their first Mirage fighters in 1967 , equipping No. 3 , No. 75 and No. 77 Squadrons with them . The service also received American F @-@ 111 strike aircraft , C @-@ 130 Hercules transports , P @-@ 3 Orion maritime reconnaissance aircraft and Italian Macchi trainers . 


 = = = Indonesia @-@ Malaysia Confrontation , 1962 – 66 = = = 


 The Indonesia @-@ Malaysia confrontation was fought from 1962 to 1966 between the British Commonwealth and Indonesia over the creation of the Federation of Malaysia , with the Commonwealth attempting to safeguard the security of the new state . The war remained limited , and was fought primarily on the island of Borneo , although a number of Indonesian seaborne and airborne incursions onto the Malay Peninsula did occur . As part of Australia 's continuing military commitment to the security of Malaysia , army , naval and airforce units were based there as part of the Far East Strategic Reserve . Regardless the Australian government was wary of involvement in a war with Indonesia and initially limited its involvement to the defence of the Malayan peninsula only . On two occasions Australian troops from 3 RAR were used to help mop up infiltrators from seaborne and airborne incursions at Labis and Pontian , in September and October 1964 . 

 Following these raids the government conceded to British and Malaysian requests to deploy an infantry battalion to Borneo . During the early phases , British and Malaysian troops had attempted only to control the Malaysian / Indonesian border , and to protect population centres . However , by the time the Australian battalion deployed the British had decided on more aggressive action , crossing the border into Kalimantan to obtain information and conduct ambushes to force the Indonesians to remain on the defensive , under the codename Operation Claret . The fighting took place in mountainous , jungle @-@ clad terrain , and a debilitating climate , with operations characterised by the extensive use of company bases sited along the border , cross @-@ border operations , the use of helicopters for troop movement and resupply , and the role of human and signals intelligence to determine enemy movements and intentions . 

 3 RAR deployed to Borneo in March 1965 , and served in Sarawak until the end of July , operating on both sides of the border . The battalion had four major contacts with Indonesian forces and several smaller ones — including at Sungei Koemba , Kindau and Babang during which they inflicted heavy casualties on the Indonesians — as well as suffering casualties in two mine incidents . 4 RAR served a less @-@ eventful tour between April and August 1966 , and also operated over the border , successfully clashing with the Indonesians on a number of occasions . A squadron of the Special Air Service Regiment ( SASR ) was also deployed in 1965 and again in 1966 , taking part in cross @-@ border operations and inflicting significant casualties on the Indonesians , even though they were often tasked with covert reconnaissance . Other units included artillery and engineers , while a number of RAN ships were involved in shelling Indonesian positions in Borneo and in repelling infiltrators in the Singapore Strait . The RAAF played a relatively minor role , although it would have been used far more extensively had the war escalated . 

 Operations in Borneo were extremely sensitive and they received little press coverage in Australia , while official acknowledgement of involvement in cross @-@ border missions only occurred in 1996 . Following a military coup in Indonesia in early 1966 which brought General Suharto to power , a peace treaty was signed in August 1966 which ended the conflict . 3 @,@ 500 Australians served during Confrontation ; casualties included 16 dead , with seven killed in action and eight wounded . 


 = = = Vietnam War , 1962 – 73 = = = 


 Australia 's involvement in the Vietnam War was driven largely by the rise of communism in Southeast Asia after the Second World War , and the fear of its spread which developed in Australia during the 1950s and early 1960s . As a consequence , Australia supported South Vietnam throughout the early 1960s . In 1961 and 1962 , the leader of the South Vietnamese government , Ngo Dinh Diem , asked for assistance from the US and its allies in response to a growing insurgency supported by communist North Vietnam . Australia offered 30 military advisors from the Australian Army Training Team Vietnam , which became known simply as " The Team " . They arrived in July and August 1962 , beginning Australia 's involvement in the war . Later in August 1964 , the RAAF sent a flight of Caribou transport aircraft to the port city of Vung Tau . 

 However , with the security situation in South Vietnam continuing to deteriorate , the US increased its involvement to 200 @,@ 000 combat troops by early 1965 . Australia also committed ground forces , dispatching the 1 RAR to serve with the US 173rd Airborne Brigade in Bien Hoa province in June 1965 and it subsequently fought a number of significant actions , including Gang Toi , Operation Crimp and Suoi Bong Trang . In March 1966 , the Australian government announced the deployment of a brigade @-@ sized unit — the 1st Australian Task Force ( 1 ATF ) — to replace 1 RAR . Included were a large number of conscripts , under the increasingly controversial National Service Scheme . Consisting of two infantry battalions as well as armour , aviation , artillery and other support arms , the task force was assigned primary responsibility for its own area and was based at Nui Dat , in Phuoc Tuy Province . Included were the Iroquois helicopters of No. 9 Squadron RAAF . At the Battle of Long Tan on 18 August 1966 , D Company , 6 RAR with considerable artillery support held off and defeated a Viet Cong force that was at least six times bigger than itself . 18 Australians were killed and 24 wounded , while 245 communist dead were later recovered from the battlefield . The battle allowed the Australians to gain dominance over Phuoc Tuy Province and 1 ATF was not fundamentally challenged again . Regardless , during February 1967 the Australians suffered their heaviest casualties in the war to that point , losing 16 men killed and 55 wounded in a single week , the bulk during Operation Bribie . 

 Yet with the Phuoc Tuy province coming progressively under control throughout 1967 , the Australians increasingly spent a significant period of time conducting operations further afield . 1 ATF was subsequently deployed astride infiltration routes leading to Saigon to interdict communist movement against the capital as part of Operation Coburg during the 1968 Tet Offensive and later during the Battle of Coral – Balmoral in May and June 1968 . At Fire Support Bases Coral and Balmoral the Australians had clashed with regular North Vietnamese Army and Viet Cong main force units operating in battalion and regimental strength for the first time in near conventional warfare , ultimately fighting their largest , most hazardous and most sustained battle of the war . During 26 days of fighting Australian casualties included 25 killed and 99 wounded , while communist casualties included 267 killed confirmed by body count , 60 possibly killed , 7 wounded and 11 captured . Other significant Australian actions included Binh Ba in June 1969 , Hat Dich in late @-@ December 1968 and early 1969 and Long Khanh in June 1971 . At the height of the Australian commitment , 1 ATF numbered 8 @,@ 500 troops , including three infantry battalions , armour , artillery , engineers , logistics and aviation units in support . A third RAAF unit , No. 2 Squadron RAAF , flying Canberra bombers , was sent in 1967 , and four RAN destroyers joined US patrols in the waters off North Vietnam . 

 The Australian withdrawal effectively commenced in November 1970 . As a consequence of the overall allied strategy of Vietnamization and with the Australian government keen to reduce its own commitment to the war , 8 RAR was not replaced at the end of its tour of duty . 1 ATF was again reduced to just two infantry battalions , albeit with significant armour , artillery and aviation support remaining . Australian combat forces were further reduced during 1971 as part of a phased withdrawal , and 1 ATF ceased operations in October . Meanwhile , the advisors remained to train South Vietnamese troops until withdrawn on 18 December 1972 by the newly elected Labor government of Gough Whitlam . The last Australian forces were finally withdrawn in 1973 . The Vietnam War was Australia 's longest and most controversial war and although initially enjoying broad support , as the nation 's military involvement increased a vocal anti @-@ war movement developed . More than 50 @,@ 000 Australians served in Vietnam ; 519 were killed and 2 @,@ 398 were wounded . Four were awarded the Victoria Cross . 


 = = Post @-@ Vietnam era = = 



 = = = Creation of the Australian Defence Force , 1976 = = = 


 Although the importance of ' joint ' warfare had been highlighted during Second World War when Australian naval , ground and air units frequently served as part of single commands , the absence of a central authority continued to result in poor co @-@ ordination between the services in the post @-@ war era , with each organising and operating on the basis of a different military doctrine . The need for an integrated command structure received more emphasis during the Australian military 's experiences in the Vietnam War . In 1973 , the Secretary of the Department of Defence , Arthur Tange , submitted a report to the Government that recommended the unification of the separate departments supporting each service into a single department and the creation of the post of Chief of the Defence Force Staff . 

 The Whitlam Labor Government subsequently amalgamated the five defence ministries ( Defence , Navy , Army , Air Force , and Supply ) into a single Department of Defence in 1973 , while conscription under the National Service scheme was abolished . On 1 January 1976 , the three branches of the Australian military were brought together as a unified , all @-@ volunteer , professional force known as the Australian Defence Force ( ADF ) . Today , the ADF is headquartered at Russell Offices in Canberra and is divided into Air , Land , Maritime and Special Operations Commands . In addition , Northern Command is based in Darwin , and is responsible for operations in Northern Australia . 


 = = = Defence of Australia , 1980s and 1990s = = = 


 Until the 1970s , Australia 's military strategy centred on the concept of Forward Defence , in which the role of Australian military and naval forces were to co @-@ operate with Allied forces to counter threats in Australia 's region . Following the adoption of the Guam Doctrine by the United States in 1969 , and the British withdrawal ' east of Suez ' in the early 1970s , Australia developed a defence policy emphasising self @-@ reliance and the defence of the Australian continent . Known as the Defence of Australia Policy , it focused Australian defence planning on protecting the nation 's northern maritime approaches ( the ' air @-@ sea gap ' ) against possible attack . 

 In line with this goal , the ADF was restructured to increase its ability to strike at enemy forces from Australian bases and to counter raids on continental Australia . This was achieved by increasing the capabilities of the RAN and RAAF , and relocating regular Army units to Northern Australia . During this time the ADF had no military units on operational deployment outside Australia . However , in 1987 the ADF made its first operational deployment as part of Operation Morris Dance , in which several warships and a rifle company deployed to the waters off Fiji in response to the 1987 Fijian coups d 'état . While broadly successful , this deployment highlighted the need for the ADF to improve its capability to rapidly respond to unforeseen events . 

 During this period Australia continued to retain forces in Malaysia as part of the Five Power Defence Arrangements ( FPDA ) agreed in 1971 to defend it in the event of external attack , with this commitment initially including significant air , ground and naval forces . However , these forces were gradually reduced with the infantry battalion withdrawn from Singapore in 1973 , and the two Mirage fighter squadrons in 1988 . Since then a detachment of Orion maritime patrol aircraft , support personnel , and an infantry company known as Rifle Company Butterworth have been maintained , as well as occasional deployments of F / A @-@ 18 Hornet fighter aircraft . Australian submarines were reportedly also involved in a number of clandestine surveillance missions throughout Asian waters in the last decades of the Cold War . Airforce and Navy units were also involved in tracking Soviet ship and submarine movements in the region . Since then the Orions have continued to participate in maritime security operations as part of Operation Gateway , conducting patrols over the Indian Ocean , Strait of Malacca and South China Sea . They have reportedly also been involved in freedom of navigation flights . 


 = = = Gulf War , 1991 = = = 


 Australia was a member of the international coalition which contributed military forces to the 1991 Gulf War , deploying a naval task group of two warships , a support ship and a clearance diving team ; in total about 750 personnel . The Australian contribution was the first time Australian personnel were deployed to an active war zone since the establishment of the ADF and the deployment tested its capabilities and command structure . However , the Australian force did not see combat , and instead playing a significant role in enforcing the sanctions put in place against Iraq following the invasion of Kuwait . Some ADF personnel serving on exchange with British and American units did see combat , and a few were later decorated for their actions . Following the war , the Navy regularly deployed a frigate to the Persian Gulf or Red Sea to enforce the trade sanctions which continued to be applied to Iraq . A number of Australian airmen and ground crew posted to or on exchange with US and British air forces subsequently participated in enforcing no @-@ fly zones imposed over Iraq between 1991 and 2003 . 


 = = = Global security , late @-@ 1990s = = = 


 Since the late 1980s , the Australian government had increasingly called upon the ADF to contribute forces to peacekeeping missions around the world . While most of these deployments involved only small numbers of specialists , several led to the deployment of hundreds of personnel . Large peacekeeping deployments were made to Namibia in early 1989 , Cambodia between 1992 and 1993 , Somalia in 1993 , Rwanda between 1994 and 1995 and Bougainville in 1994 and from 1997 onwards . The 1996 election of the Howard Liberal government resulted in significant reforms to the ADF 's force structure and role , with the new government 's defence strategy placed less singular emphasis on defending Australia from direct attack and greater emphasis on working in co @-@ operation with regional states and Australia 's allies to manage potential security threats in recognition of Australia 's global security interests . In line with this new focus , the ADF 's force structure changed in an attempt to increase the proportion of combat units to support units and to improve the ADF 's combat effectiveness . 


 = = New Millennium = = 



 = = = East Timor , 1999 – 2013 = = = 


 The former @-@ Portuguese colony of East Timor was invaded by Indonesia in 1975 , however , following years of violent struggle the new Indonesian government of President B.J. Habibie subsequently agreed to allow the East Timorese to vote on autonomy in 1999 . The United Nations Mission in East Timor ( UNAMET ) was established to organise and conduct the vote , which was held at the end of August 1999 and resulted with 78 @.@ 5 % of voters deciding in favour of independence . However , following the announcement of the results pro @-@ Indonesian militias supported by elements of the Indonesian military , launched a campaign of violence , looting and arson and many East Timorese were killed , while perhaps more than 500 @,@ 000 were displaced . Unable to control the violence , Indonesia subsequently agreed to the deployment of a multinational peacekeeping force . Australia , which had contributed police to UNAMET , organised and led an international military coalition , known as the International Force for East Timor ( INTERFET ) , a non @-@ UN force operating in accordance with UN resolutions . The total size of the Australian force committed numbered 5 @,@ 500 personnel , and included a significant ground force , supported by air and naval forces , in the largest single deployment of Australian forces since 1945 . 

 Under the overall command of Australian Major General Peter Cosgrove , INTERFET began arriving on 12 September 1999 and was tasked with restoring peace and security , protecting and supporting UNAMET , and facilitating humanitarian assistance operations . With the withdrawal of the Indonesian armed forces , police and government officials from East Timor , UNAMET re @-@ established its headquarters in Dili on 28 September . On 19 October 1999 , Indonesia formally recognised the result of the referendum and shortly thereafter a UN peacekeeping force , the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor ( UNTAET ) was established , becoming fully responsible for the administration of East Timor during its transition to independence . The hand @-@ over of command of military operations from INTERFET to UNTAET was completed on 28 February 2000 . Australia continued to support the UN peacekeeping operation with between 1 @,@ 500 and 2 @,@ 000 personnel , as well as landing craft and Blackhawk helicopters and remained the largest contributor of personnel to the peacekeeping mission . During these operations Australian forces regularly clashed with pro @-@ Indonesian militia and on a number of occasions Indonesian forces as well , especially along the border with West Timor . Significant actions occurred in Suai , Mota 'ain and at Aidabasalala in October 1999 . However , with the security situation stabilised the bulk of the Australian and UN forces were withdrawn by 2005 . Two Australians died from non @-@ battle related causes , while a number were wounded in action . 

 The unexpected deployment to East Timor in 1999 led to significant changes in Australian defence policy and to an enhancement of the ADF 's ability to conduct operations outside Australia . This successful deployment was the first time a large Australian military force had operated outside of Australia since the Vietnam War and revealed shortcomings in the ADF 's ability to mount and sustain such operations . In response , the 2000 Defence White Paper placed a greater emphasis on preparing the ADF for overseas deployments . The Australian government committed to improve the ADF 's capabilities by improving the readiness and equipment of ADF units , expanding the ADF to 57 @,@ 000 full @-@ time personnel and increasing real Defence expenditure by 3 % per year . 

 In May 2006 , 2 @,@ 000 ADF personnel were again deployed to East Timor as part of Operation Astute , following unrest between elements of the Timor Leste Defence Force . Australian forces were involved in a number skirmishes during this time , including a heavy clash with rebels commanded by Alfredo Reinado at Same on 4 March 2007 . However , by early @-@ 2010 the security situation had been stabilised and just 400 Australian personnel remained to train the local security forces as part of a small international force . Following a drawdown , the International Stabilisation Force commenced withdrawing from Timor @-@ Leste in November 2012 , a process which was completed in April 2013 . 


 = = = Afghanistan , 2001 – present = = = 


 Shortly after the Islamist inspired terrorist attacks in New York and Washington on 11 September 2001 , Australian forces were committed to the American @-@ led international coalition against terrorism . The ADF 's most visible contribution — codenamed Operation Slipper — has been a special forces task group operating in Afghanistan from 2001 to 2002 and again from mid @-@ 2005 to fight against the Taliban . Over time the Australian commitment has grown , with the addition of further ground forces in the form of a Reconstruction Task Force from 2006 to provide security , reconstruction and to mentor and train the Afghan National Army . Australia has also contributed a frigate and two AP @-@ 3C Orion surveillance aircraft and three C @-@ 130 Hercules transport aircraft to international operations in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean since 2001 , supporting both the operations in Afghanistan and those in Iraq under Operation Catalyst . A detachment of four F / A @-@ 18 Hornet fighter @-@ bombers was based at Diego Garcia from late @-@ 2001 to mid @-@ 2002 , while two Boeing 707 air @-@ to @-@ air refuelling aircraft were also based in Manas Air Base in Kyrgyzstan to provide support to coalition aircraft operating in Afghan airspace but were later withdrawn . A Special Operations Task Group was deployed to support the Reconstruction Taskforce in April 2007 . In addition to radar crews , logistics and intelligence officers , and security personnel , this brought the number of Australian personnel in Afghanistan to 950 by mid @-@ 2007 , with further small increases to 1 @,@ 000 in mid @-@ 2008 , 1 @,@ 100 in early 2009 and 1 @,@ 550 in mid @-@ 2009 . 

 A modest force remained in Afghanistan over this time and was involved in counter @-@ insurgency operations in Uruzgan Province in conjunction United States and other coalition forces , including the Dutch prior to their withdrawal . The force consisted of motorised infantry , special forces , engineers , cavalry , artillery and aviation elements . By 2010 it included a combined arms battalion @-@ sized battle group known as the Mentoring Task Force , and the Special Operations Task Group , both based at Forward Operation Base Ripley outside of Tarin Kowt , as well as the Rotary Wing Group flying CH @-@ 47D Chinooks , the Force Logistics Asset and an RAAF air surveillance radar unit based in Kandahar . In addition , a further 800 Australian logistic personnel were also based in the Middle East in support , but are located outside of Afghanistan . Meanwhile , detachments of maritime patrol and transport aircraft continued to support operations in Iraq and Afghanistan , based out of Al Minhad Air Base in the United Arab Emirates . Also included is the deployment of one of the RAN 's frigates to the Arabian Sea and Gulf of Aden on counter piracy and maritime interdiction duties . 

 Australian forces were at times involved in heavy fighting , and significant actions included Operation Anaconda in 2002 and Operation Perth in 2006 , as well as actions in Chora in 2007 , Kakarak in 2009 , the Shah Wali Kot and Derapet in 2010 , and Doan in 2011 ; although others have yet to be publicly acknowledged due to operational security requirements . Casualties include 41 killed and 256 wounded , while another Australian also died serving with the British Army . Four Australians have been awarded the Victoria Cross for Australia , the first such decorations in forty years . Following a drawdown in forces , the last combat troops were withdrawn on 15 December 2013 ; however , approximately 400 personnel remain in Afghanistan as trainers and advisers , and are stationed in Kandahar and Kabul . Over 26 @,@ 000 Australian personnel have served in Afghanistan . 


 = = = Iraq , 2003 – 11 = = = 


 Australian forces later joined British and American forces during the 2003 invasion of Iraq . The initial contribution was also a modest one , consisting of just 2 @,@ 058 personnel — codenamed Operation Falconer . Major force elements included special forces , rotary and fixed wing aviation and naval units . Army units included elements from the SASR and 4th Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( Commando ) , a CH @-@ 47 Chinook detachment and a number of other specialist units . RAN units included the amphibious ship HMAS Kanimbla and the frigates HMAS Darwin and HMAS Anzac , while the RAAF deployed 14 F / A @-@ 18 Hornets from No. 75 Squadron , a number of AP @-@ 3C Orions and C @-@ 130 Hercules . The Australian Special Forces Task Force was one of the first coalition units forces to cross the border into Iraq , while for a few days , the closest ground troops to Baghdad were from the SASR . During the invasion the RAAF also flew its first combat missions since the Vietnam War , with No. 75 Squadron flying a total of 350 sorties and dropping 122 laser @-@ guided bombs . 

 The Iraqi military quickly proved no match for coalition military power , and with their defeat the bulk of Australian forces were withdrawn . While Australia did not initially take part in the post @-@ war occupation of Iraq , an Australian Army light armoured battlegroup — designated the Al Muthanna Task Group and including 40 ASLAV light armoured vehicles and infantry — was later deployed to Southern Iraq in April 2005 as part of Operation Catalyst . The role of this force was to protect the Japanese engineer contingent in the region and support the training of New Iraqi Army units . The AMTG later became the Overwatch Battle Group ( West ) ( OBG ( W ) ) , following the hand back of Al Muthanna province to Iraqi control . Force levels peaked at 1 @,@ 400 personnel in May 2007 including the OBG ( W ) in Southern Iraq , the Security Detachment in Baghdad and the Australian Army Training Team — Iraq . A RAN frigate was based in the North Persian Gulf , while RAAF assets included C @-@ 130H Hercules and AP @-@ 3C elements . Following the election of a new Labor government under Prime Minister Kevin Rudd the bulk of these forces were withdrawn by mid @-@ 2009 , while RAAF and RAN operations were redirected to other parts of the Middle East Area of Operations as part of Operation Slipper . 

 Low @-@ level operations continued , however , with a small Australian force of 80 soldiers remaining in Iraq to protect the Australian Embassy in Baghdad as part of SECDET under Operation Kruger . SECDET was finally withdrawn in August 2011 , and was replaced by a private military company which took over responsibility for providing security for Australia 's diplomatic presence in Iraq . Although more than 17 @,@ 000 personnel served during operations in Iraq , Australian casualties were relatively light , with two soldiers accidentally killed , while a third Australian died serving with the British Royal Air Force . A further 27 personnel were wounded . Two officers remained in Iraq attached to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq as part of Operation Riverbank . This operation concluded in November 2013 . 


 = = = Military intervention against ISIL , 2014 – present = = = 


 In June 2014 a small number of SASR personnel were deployed to Iraq to protect the Australian embassy when the security of Baghdad was threatened by the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive . Later , in August and September a number of RAAF C @-@ 17 and C @-@ 130J transport aircraft based in the Middle East were used to conduct airdrops of humanitarian aid to trapped civilians and to airlift arms and munitions to forces in Kurdish @-@ controlled northern Iraq . In late September 2014 an Air Task Group ( ATG ) and Special Operations Task Group ( SOTG ) were deployed to Al Minhad Air Base in the United Arab Emirates as part of the coalition to combat Islamic State forces in Iraq . Equipped with F / A @-@ 18F Super Hornet strike aircraft , a KC @-@ 30A Multi Role Tanker Transport , and an E @-@ 7A Wedgetail Airborne Early Warning & Control aircraft , the ATG began operations on 1 October . The SOTG is tasked with operations to advise and assist Iraqi Security Forces , and was deployed to Iraq after a legal framework covering their presence in the country was agreed between the Australian and Iraqi Governments . It began moving into Iraq in early November . In April 2015 a 300 @-@ strong unit known as Task Group Taji was deployed to Iraq to train the regular Iraqi Security Forces . Airstrikes were extended to Syria in September 2015 . 


 = = Peacekeeping = = 


 Australia 's involvement in international peacekeeping operations has been diverse , and included participation in both United Nations sponsored missions , as well as those as part of ad @-@ hoc coalitions . Australians have been involved in more conflicts as peacekeepers than as belligerents ; however " in comparative international terms , Australia has only been a moderately energetic peacekeeper . " Although Australia has had peacekeepers in the field continuously for 60 years — being among the first group of UN military observers in Indonesia in 1947 — its commitments have generally been limited , consisting mostly of small numbers of high @-@ level and technical support troops such as signallers , engineers , medics , observers , and police . One significant commitment has been Australia 's ongoing involvement with the long running Multinational Force and Observers in the Sinai . The operational tempo started increasing in the mid @-@ 1990s , when Australia became involved in a series of high @-@ profile operations , deploying significantly larger combat units in support of a number of missions including Cambodia , Rwanda , Somalia , East Timor , and the Solomon Islands . Australia has been involved in close to 100 separate missions , involving more than 30 @,@ 000 personnel ; 14 Australians have died during these operations . 


 = = Military statistics = = 




 = Ward Churchill = 


 Ward LeRoy Churchill ( born 1947 ) is an American author and political activist . He was a professor of ethnic studies at the University of Colorado Boulder from 1990 until 2007 . The primary focus of his work is on the historical treatment of political dissenters and Native Americans by the United States government . His work features controversial and provocative views , written in a direct , often confrontational style . 

 In January 2005 , Churchill 's work attracted controversy because of the circulation of a 2001 essay , " On the Justice of Roosting Chickens " , in which he argued the September 11 attacks were a natural and unavoidable consequence of unlawful US foreign policy over the latter half of the 20th century ; the essay is well known for Churchill 's use of the phrase " little Eichmanns " to describe the " technocratic corps " working in the World Trade Center . 

 In March 2005 the University of Colorado began investigating allegations that Churchill had engaged in research misconduct ; it reported in June 2006 that he had done so . Churchill was fired on July 24 , 2007 , leading to a claim by some scholars that he was fired because of the " Little Eichmanns " comment . Churchill filed a lawsuit against the University of Colorado for unlawful termination of employment . In April 2009 a Denver jury found that Churchill was wrongly fired , awarding him $ 1 in damages . In July 2009 , a District Court judge vacated the monetary award and declined Churchill 's request to order his reinstatement , deciding the university has " quasi @-@ judicial immunity " . In February 2010 , Churchill appealed the judge 's decision . In November 2010 , the Colorado Court of Appeals upheld the lower @-@ court 's ruling . In September 10 , 2012 , the Colorado Supreme Court upheld the lower courts ' decisions in favor of the University of Colorado . On April 1 , 2013 , the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the case . 

 In a February 2014 interview , Churchill commented that after living more than forty years in the northern plains / Colorado region , he had relocated to Atlanta , Georgia in 2013 . Churchill also stated that he had a half @-@ dozen uncompleted books which he intended to finish and publish in the next three years . 


 = = Early life and education = = 


 Churchill was born in Urbana , Illinois , to Jack LeRoy Churchill and Maralyn Lucretia Allen . His parents divorced before he was two , and he grew up in Elmwood , where he attended local schools . 

 In 1966 , he was drafted into the United States Army . On his 1980 resume , he said he served as a public @-@ information specialist who " wrote and edited the battalion newsletter and wrote news releases . " 

 In a 1987 profile on Churchill , the Denver Post reported that he was drafted , went to paratrooper school , then volunteered for Vietnam , where he served a 10 @-@ month tour as Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol ( LRRP ) , one of a six @-@ man team sent out to track down the enemy . The Post article also reported that Churchill was politically radicalized as a result of his experiences in Vietnam . Churchill told the Post that he had spent some time at the Chicago office of the Students for a Democratic Society ( SDS ) in the late 1960s , and briefly taught members of the Weather Underground how to build bombs and fire weapons . 

 In 2005 , the Denver Post reported that Churchill 's military records show he was trained as a film projectionist and light truck driver , but they do not reflect paratrooper school or LRRP training . The 75th Ranger Regiment Association found no record of Churchill having been a member of the unit , or a LRRP team . 

 Churchill received his B.A. in technological communications in 1974 and M.A. in communications theory in 1975 , both from Sangamon State University , now the University of Illinois at Springfield . 


 = = Career = = 


 In 1978 , Churchill began working at the University of Colorado Boulder as an affirmative action officer in the university administration . He also lectured on American Indian issues in the ethnic studies program . In 1990 , the University of Colorado hired him as an associate professor , although he did not possess the academic doctorate usually required for the position . The following year he was granted tenure in the Communications department , without the usual six @-@ year probationary period , after having been declined by the Sociology and Political Science departments . 

 He has long been interested in issues associated with the Dawes Act , which broke up the communal reservation lands and assigned plots to individual households . Connected with that was the federal government 's first use of " blood quantum " to define individual membership in tribes , for what became known as the Dawes Rolls . Since re @-@ establishing self @-@ governments , federally recognized tribes have established their own criteria for enrollment as members , often related to descent from recognized historical lists , but less often requiring proofs of blood quantum . Some of his published works address these issues , which he has interpreted as part of the federal government 's policy of genocide against Native Americans . 

 In 1995 Churchill discussed his views with David Barsamian in an interview : 

 You could say that five hundred years ago was the basis of blood quantum in Ibero @-@ America . But in Anglo @-@ America , while there was some preoccupation with it , it was not formalized until the passage of the General Allotment Act , mid @-@ 1880s . At that point they began to define Indian as being someone who was demonstrably and documentably of at least one @-@ quarter by quantum blood indigenous in a given group . You couldn 't be an eighth Cheyenne and an eighth Arapaho and be an Indian . You had to be a quarter Cheyenne or a quarter Arapaho or hopefully a quarter and a quarter . The reason for this was quite clear . They were identifying Indians for purposes of allotting them individual parcels of land in the existing reservation base at that point . If they ran out of Indians identifiable as such , then the rest of the land would be declared surplus . So it was clearly in the interests of the government to create a definition of Indianness that would minimize the number of Indians that were available . It was an economic motivation for the application of this genetic criteria to Indianness in the first place . It 's become increasingly so ever since . " ( David Barsamian ( December 1995 ) . " Interview with Ward Churchill : Historical and Current Perspectives " . Z Magazine . ) 

 In 1996 , Churchill moved to the new Ethnic Studies Department of the University of Colorado . In 1997 , he was promoted to full professor . He was selected as chairman of the department in June 2002 . 

 In January 2005 , during the controversy over his 9 / 11 remarks , Churchill resigned as chairman of the ethnic studies department at the University of Colorado — his term as chair was scheduled to expire in June of that year . On May 16 , 2006 , the Investigative Committee of the Standing Committee on Research Misconduct at the University of Colorado concluded that Churchill had committed multiple counts of academic misconduct , specifically plagiarism , fabrication , and falsification . On July 24 , 2007 , Churchill was fired for academic misconduct in an eight to one vote by the University of Colorado 's Board of Regents . 


 = = Genealogy and Tribal affiliation = = 


 In 2003 , Churchill stated , " I am myself of Muscogee and Creek descent on my father 's side , Cherokee on my mother 's , and am an enrolled member of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians . " In 1992 , Churchill wrote elsewhere that he is one @-@ eighth Creek and one @-@ sixteenth Cherokee . In 1993 , Churchill told the Colorado Daily that " he was one @-@ sixteenth Creek and Cherokee . " Churchill told the Denver Post in February 2005 that he is three @-@ sixteenths Cherokee . 

 In a statement dated May 9 , 2005 , and posted on its website , the United Keetoowah Band initially said , 

 " The United Keetoowah Band would like to make it clear that Mr. Churchill IS NOT a member of the Keetoowah Band and was only given an honorary ' associate membership ' in the early 1990s because he could not prove any Cherokee ancestry . " The tribe said that all of Churchill 's " past , present and future claims or assertions of Keetoowah ' enrollment , ' written or spoken , including but not limited to ; biographies , curriculum vitae , lectures , applications for employment , or any other reference not listed herein , are deemed fraudulent by the United Keetoowah Band . " 

 Two days later , the United Keetoowah Band replaced its statement and acknowledged Churchill 's " alleged ancestry " of being Cherokee : 

 " Because Mr. Churchill had genealogical information regarding his alleged ancestry , and his willingness to assist the UKB in promoting the tribe and its causes , he was awarded an ' Associate Membership ' as an honor , " the tribe 's website now said . " However , Mr. Churchill may possess eligibility status for Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma , since he claims 1 / 16 Cherokee . " 

 The tribe 's spokesperson , Lisa Stopp , stated the tribe enrolls only members with certified one @-@ quarter American Indian blood . The website statement further clarified that Churchill " was not eligible for tribal membership due to the fact that he does not possess a ' Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood ( CDIB ) " , and the associate membership did not entitle an individual to voting rights or enrollment in the tribe . 

 Churchill has never asked for CDIB certification , and finds the idea of being " vetted " by the US government offensive . 

 In June 1994 , the United Keetoowah Band had voted to stop awarding associate memberships . Such honorary associate membership recognizes an individual 's assistance to the tribe , but it has nothing to do with Indian ancestry , and it does not entitle an individual to vote in the tribe as a member . The Keetoowah Band states that Churchill still holds the associate membership and it has not been rescinded . In a separate interview , Ernestine Berry , formerly on the tribe 's enrollment committee and four years on its council , said that Churchill had never fulfilled a promise to help the tribe . 

 In June 2005 , the Rocky Mountain News published an article about Churchill 's genealogy and family history . It " turned up no evidence of a single Indian ancestor " among 142 direct ancestors [ of Churchill 's ] identified from records . The News reported that both Churchill 's birth parents were listed as white on the 1930 census , as were all but two of his great @-@ great @-@ grandparents listed on previous census and other official documents . The News found that some of Churchill 's accounts of where his ancestors had lived did not agree with documented records . Numerous members of Churchill 's extended family have longstanding family legends of Indian ancestry among ancestors ; but , none was confirmed among the 142 direct forebears of Churchill who were identified . 

 Documents in Churchill 's university personnel file show that he was granted tenure in a " special opportunity position . " In 1994 , then CU @-@ Boulder Chancellor James Corbridge refused to take action on allegations that Churchill was fraudulently claiming to be an Indian , saying " it has always been university policy that a person 's race or ethnicity is self @-@ proving . " 

 Some of Churchill 's Native American critics , such as Vernon Bellecourt ( White Earth Ojibwe ) and Suzan Shown Harjo ( Southern Cheyenne @-@ Muscogee Creek ) , argue that his assertion of Native American ancestry without the ability to prove it might constitute misrepresentation and grounds for termination . The University has said that it does not hire on the basis of ethnicity . The University of Colorado 's Research Misconduct Committee conducted a preliminary investigation into whether Churchill misrepresented his ethnicity to " add credibility and public acceptance to his scholarship . " The committee concluded that the allegation was not " appropriate for further investigation under the definition of research misconduct . " 

 In a 2005 interview in The Rocky Mountain News , Churchill said , " I have never been confirmed as having one @-@ quarter blood , and never said I was . And even if [ the critics ] are absolutely right , what does that have to do with this issue ? I have never claimed to be goddamned Sitting Bull . " The longtime indigenous activist Russell Means said in February of that year , " So I want , from this day forward , every media person nationally , internationally and locally to know that we have ascertained that Ward Churchill is a full @-@ blooded Indian leader . " 


 = = = Blood quantum = = = 


 Churchill has responded to requests for verification of his claimed Indian heritage in various ways , including attacking the blood quantum upon which some Native American tribes establish their membership requirements . Churchill argues that the United States instituted blood quantum laws based upon rules of descendancy in order to further goals of personal enrichment and political expediency . 

 For decades in his writings , Churchill has argued that blood quantum laws have an inherent genocidal purpose . He says , 

 " Set the blood quantum at one @-@ quarter , hold to it as a rigid definition of Indians , let intermarriage proceed as it [ has ] and eventually Indians will be defined out of existence " . 

 Churchill 's assertions have been raised as one of the several research @-@ misconduct allegations that were brought against him in 2005 ( see below ) . He has been accused of using his interpretation of the Dawes Act to attack tribal governments that would not recognize him as a member . 


 = = Writing = = 


 Churchill has written on American Indian history and culture , and speaks about genocide inflicted on the indigenous people of the Americas by European settlers and what he describes as the repression of native peoples that continues to this day . 

 As of 2007 , according to a report submitted on his behalf , Churchill has written 10 books on his own and co @-@ authored 4 . Some have been reprinted with updates . He has written 51 book chapters , 3 law reviews , and 50 scholarly essays ; 27 of these were refereed . He has edited 4 volumes and co @-@ edited 3 more . 

 According to the University of Colorado investigation , " His academic publications are nearly all works of synthesis and reinterpretation , drawing upon studies by other scholars , not monographs describing new research based on primary sources . " The investigation also noted that " he has decided to publish largely in alternative presses or journals , not in the university presses or mainstream peer @-@ reviewed journals often favored by more conventional academics . " In addition to his academic writing , Churchill has written for several general readership magazines of political opinion . 

 In 1986 , Churchill wrote an essay titled Pacifism as Pathology : Notes on an American Pseudopraxis criticizing pacifist politics within the U.S. left as being hypocritical , de facto racist and ineffectual . In 1998 , Arbeiter Ring Publishing published the essay in a book entitled Pacifism as Pathology : Reflections on the Role of Armed Struggle in North America and listing Ward Churchill as the author . The book included a preface by Ed Mead , a new introduction to the essay by Churchill and a commentary by Mike Ryan . The book sparked much debate in leftist circles and inspired more aggressive tactics within the anti @-@ globalization movement in the following few years . 

 Agents of Repression ( 1988 ) , co @-@ authored by Jim Vander Wall , describes what the authors claim was a secret war against the Black Panther Party and American Indian Movement carried out during the late 1960s and ' 70s by the FBI under the COINTELPRO program . The COINTELPRO Papers ( 1990 ; reissued 2002 ) , also co @-@ authored with Jim Vander Wall , examines a series of original FBI memos that detail the Bureau 's activities against various leftist groups , from the U.S. Communist Party in the 1950s to activists concerned with Central American issues in the 1980s . 

 In Fantasies of the Master Race ( 1992 ) , Churchill examines the portrayal of American Indians and the use of American Indian symbols in popular American culture . He focuses on such phenomena as Tony Hillerman 's mystery novels , the film Dances with Wolves , and the New Age movement , finding examples of cultural imperialism and exploitation . Churchill calls author Carlos Castaneda 's claims of revealing the teachings of a Yaqui Indian shaman , the " greatest hoax since Piltdown Man . " 

 Struggle for the Land ( 1993 ; reissued 2002 ) is a collection of essays in which Churchill chronicles what he describes as the U.S. government 's systematic exploitation of Native lands and the killing or displacement of American Indians . He details Native American efforts in the 19th and 20th centuries to prevent defoliation and industrial practices such as surface mining . 

 Churchill 's Indians Are Us ? ( 1994 ) , a sequel to Fantasies of the Master Race , further explores American Indian issues in popular culture and politics . He examines the movie Black Robe , the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation killings , the prosecution of Leonard Peltier , sports mascots , the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990 , and blood quantum laws , calling them tools of genocide . Churchill is particularly outspoken about New Age exploitations of shamanism and American Indian sacred traditions , and the " do @-@ it @-@ yourself Indianism " of certain contemporary authors . John P. LaVelle of the University of New Mexico School of Law published a review of Indians Are Us ? in The American Indian Quarterly . Professor LaVelle , an enrolled member of the Santee Sioux Nation , states that Indians Are Us ? twists historical facts and is hostile toward Indian tribes . It was in this book that Churchill first made the claim that the United States distributed " smallpox @-@ infested blankets " to Indian tribes , a claim which he repeated several times over the next decade . The claim has been criticized as a falsification . Churchill has , however , received support from some scholars . 

 From a Native Son : Selected Essays on Indigenism , 1985 – 1995 ( 1996 ) is a collection of 23 previously published essays on Native American history , culture , and political activism . In his introduction to this volume , Howard Zinn lauds " the emergence of a new generation of Native @-@ American scholars " and describes Churchill 's writing as " powerful , eloquent , unsparing of cant and deception " . 

 Churchill 's A Little Matter of Genocide ( 1997 ) is a survey of ethnic cleansing in the Americas from 1492 to the present . He compares the treatment of North American Indians to historical instances of genocide by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia , Turks against Armenians , and Europeans against the Gypsies , as well as Nazis against the Poles and Jews . 

 In Perversions of Justice ( 2002 ) , Churchill argues that the U.S. ' s legal system was adapted to gain control over Native American people . Tracing the evolution of federal Indian law , Churchill argues that the principles set forth were not only applied to non @-@ Indians in the U.S. , but later adapted for application abroad . He concludes that this demonstrates the development of the U.S. ' s " imperial logic , " which depends on a " corrupt form of legalism " to establish colonial control and empire . 

 Churchill 's controversial essay on 9 / 11 was expanded into a book @-@ length manuscript , published as On the Justice of Roosting Chickens : Reflections on the Consequences of U.S. Imperial Arrogance and Criminality ( 2003 ) by AK Press . The book features two other chapters , one listing US military interventions , another listing what Churchill believes to be US violations of international law . The original essay takes the " roosting chickens " of the title from a 1963 Malcolm X speech , in which Malcolm X linked the assassination of U.S. president John F. Kennedy to the violence which Kennedy perpetuated as " merely a case of chickens coming home to roost . " Churchill 's essays in this book address the worldwide forms of resistance that he posits were and continue to be provoked by U.S. imperialism of the 20th and 21st centuries . 

 In Kill the Indian , Save the Man : The Genocidal Impact of American Indian Residential Schools ( 2004 ) , Churchill traces the history of removing American Indian children from their homes to residential schools ( in Canada ) or Indian boarding schools ( in the USA ) as part of government policies ( 1880s – 1980s ) which he regards as genocidal . 


 = = Activism on Native American issues = = 


 Churchill has been active since at least 1984 as the co @-@ director of the Denver @-@ based American Indian Movement of Colorado , now an autonomous chapter of the American Indian Movement . In 1993 , he and other local AIM leaders , including Russell Means , Glenn T. Morris , Robert Robideau , and David Hill , broke with the national AIM leadership , including Dennis Banks and the brothers Vernon and Clyde Bellecourt , claiming that all AIM chapters are autonomous . The AIM Grand Governing Council is based in Minneapolis and retains the name of the national group . It says that the schism arose when Means , Churchill , Glenn T. Morris and others openly supported the Miskito Indian group Misurasata , who were allied with the anti @-@ revolutionary , CIA @-@ backed Contras . 

 Journalists such as Harlan McKosato attributed the split to Means and other AIM members dividing over opposition to the Bellecourt brothers because of their alleged involvement in the execution of Anna Mae Aquash in December 1975 , who was then the highest @-@ ranking woman in AIM but had been suspected of being an informant . It was a year in which other FBI informants had been discovered in AIM . On November 3 , 1999 , Means held a press conference in Denver , Colorado in which he accused the Bellecourt brothers of complicity in Aquash 's death , and named three lower @-@ level AIM members involved in her death : Arlo Looking Cloud , John Graham , and Theda Nelson Clark . This was the first time that an AIM leader active at the time of the Aquash murder had publicly accused AIM of having been involved . 

 Looking Cloud and Graham were convicted of murder in 2004 and 2010 , by federal and South Dakota state juries , respectively . By then Clark was being cared for in a nursing home and was not indicted . Means attributed the split in AIM to divisions in the aftermath of Aquash 's murder . The journalist Harlan McKosato said in 1999 , " ... her [ Aquash 's ] death has divided the American Indian Movement ... " 

 The schism continued , with the national AIM leadership claiming that the local AIM leaders , such as Churchill , are tools of the U.S. government used against other American Indians . The leaders of the national AIM organization , now called AIM Grand Governing Council , claim that Churchill has worked in the past as an underground counter @-@ intelligence source for the U.S. government , for example the FBI , and local , non @-@ Indian , police forces , to subvert the national AIM organization . Specifically , they refer to a 1993 Boulder , Colorado interview with Jodi Rave , a former columnist for the Denver Post , in which Churchill stated that he " was teaching the Rapid City Police Department about the American Indian Movement . " In addition , Vernon Bellecourt accused Churchill of having ' fraudulently represented himself as an Indian ' to bolster his credentials . Bellecourt said he complained to the University of Colorado about this as early as 1986 . 

 Churchill has been a leader of Colorado AIM 's annual protests in Denver against the Columbus Day holiday and its associated parade . Colorado AIM 's leadership has come into conflict with some leaders in the Denver Italian American community , the main supporters of the parade . As early as 2004 , Churchill had claimed that such parades are unconstitutional , arguing that the Ninth Amendment to the Constitution provides Native Americans with a right not to be subjected to such displays , overriding the First Amendment rights of non @-@ Native Americans . 


 = = 9 / 11 essay controversy = = 


 Churchill wrote an essay in September 2001 entitled On the Justice of Roosting Chickens . In it , he argued that the September 11 attacks were provoked by U.S. foreign policy . He compared the role of financial workers at the World Trade Center in " ongoing genocidal American imperialism " to the role played by Adolf Eichmann in organizing the Holocaust . In 2005 , this essay was widely publicized when Hamilton College invited Churchill to speak . This led to both condemnations of Churchill and counter @-@ accusations of McCarthyism by Churchill and supporters . Following the controversy , the University of Colorado interim Chancellor Phil DiStefano said , " While Professor Churchill has the constitutional right to express his political views , his essay on 9 / 11 has outraged and appalled us and the general public . " 

 A documentary called Shouting Fire : Stories from the Edge of Free Speech , broadcast on HBO , prominently features Churchill 's case in addressing the issues of free speech and First Amendment rights . 


 = = Research misconduct investigation = = 


 The controversy attracted increased academic attention to Churchill 's research , which had already been criticized by the legal scholar John LaVelle and historian Guenter Lewy . Additional critics were the sociologist Thomas Brown , who had been preparing an article on Churchill 's work , and the historians R.G. Robertson and Russell Thornton , who claimed that Churchill had misrepresented their work . In 2005 , University of Colorado Boulder administrators ordered an investigation into seven allegations of research misconduct , including three allegations of plagiarism , and four allegations of fabrication or falsification regarding the history of the Dawes Act , the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990 , and statements that smallpox was intentionally spread to Native Americans by John Smith in 1614 and by the United States Army at Fort Clark in 1837 ( not to be confused with the well @-@ documented use of smallpox @-@ infected blankets at Fort Pitt in 1764 ) . 

 On May 16 , 2006 the University released their findings ; the Investigative Committee agreed unanimously that Churchill had engaged in " serious research misconduct " , including falsification , fabrication , and two of the three allegations of plagiarism . The committee was divided on the appropriate level of sanctions . The Standing Committee on Research Misconduct accepted the findings of the Investigative Committee but also disagreed on what sanctions should be imposed . Churchill 's appeal against his proposed dismissal was considered by a panel of the University 's Privilege and Tenure Committee , which found that two of the seven findings of misconduct did not constitute dismissible offences . Three members recommended that the penalty should be demotion and one year 's suspension without pay , while two favored dismissal . 

 On July 24 , 2007 , the University regents voted seven to two to uphold all seven of the findings of research misconduct , overruling the recommendation of Privilege and Tenure panel that two be dismissed . By a vote of eight to one , the regents determined to fire Churchill . 

 The next day , Churchill filed a lawsuit in state court claiming that the firing was retribution for his expressing politically unpopular views . The jury in Churchill 's suit for reinstatement weighed the university 's claims of academic misconduct per jury instructions it received in the case . As Stanley Fish said , " It was the jury ’ s task to determine whether Churchill ’ s dismissal would have occurred independently of the adverse political response to his constitutionally protected statements . " The jury found that the alleged misconduct would not have led to Churchill 's firing and rejected the university 's academic misconduct claim as the grounds for dismissal . On April 1 , 2009 , a Colorado jury found that Churchill had been wrongly fired , and awarded $ 1 in damages . As one of the jurors said later in a press interview , " it wasn 't a slap in his face or anything like that when we didn 't give him any money . It 's just that [ Churchill 's attorney ] David Lane kept saying this wasn 't about the money , and in the end , we took his word for that . " Churchill 's counsel asked Chief Judge Larry J. Naves of the Denver District Court to order reinstatement in light of the verdict . 

 On July 7 , 2009 , Judge Naves found that the defendants ( university ) were entitled to quasi @-@ judicial immunity as a matter of law , vacated the jury verdict and determined that the University did not owe Churchill any financial compensation . Naves denied Churchill 's request for reinstatement at CU . 

 Churchill appealed both decisions . On November 24 , 2010 , a three @-@ judge panel of the Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court 's decision . In February 2011 , Churchill filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the Colorado Supreme Court . In late May 2011 , the Colorado Supreme Court agreed to hear his case . Court records indicate that oral arguments began June 7 , 2012 . On September 10 , 2012 , the court ruled that the University had " quasi @-@ judicial immunity " , upholding the trial court 's ruling . On April 1 , 2013 , the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal from Churchill . 


 = = Honors = = 


 1992 , Alfred University awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters . 


 = = Works = = 


 Books , as editor 

 Marxism and Native Americans . Boulder CO : South End Press . 1984 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 89608 @-@ 178 @-@ 9 . 

 Sharon Venne , ed . ( 1997 ) . Islands in Captivity : The International Tribunal on the Rights of Indigenous Hawaiians . Boulder CO : South End Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 89608 @-@ 568 @-@ 8 . Re @-@ released as Churchill , Ward ( 2005 ) . Sharon Venne , ed . Islands in Captivity : The Record of the International Tribunal on the Rights of Indigenous Hawaiians . Boulder CO : South End Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 89608 @-@ 738 @-@ 5 . 

 Natsu Saito , ed . ( 2006 ) . Confronting The Crime Of Silence : Evidence Of U.S. War Crimes In Indochina . AK Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 904859 @-@ 21 @-@ 5 . 

 Books , as author and co @-@ author : 

 Culture versus Economism : Essays on Marxism in the Multicultural Arena. with Elisabeth Lloyd . Indigena Press . 1984 . 

 Agents of Repression : The FBI 's Secret Wars Against the Black Panther Party and the American Indian Movement. with Jim Vander Wall . Boulder CO : South End Press . 1988 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 89608 @-@ 294 @-@ 6 . 

 The COINTELPRO Papers : Documents from the FBI 's Secret War Against Domestic Dissent. with Jim Vander Wall . Boulder CO : South End Press . 1990 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 89608 @-@ 359 @-@ 2 . 

 Fantasies of the Master Race : Literature , Cinema , and the Colonization of American Indians . Common Courage Press . 1992 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 87286 @-@ 348 @-@ 4 . 

 Churchill , Ward ( 1992 ) . Jennie and Jim Vander Wall , ed . Cages of Steel : The Politics of Imprisonment in America ( Activism , Politics , Culture , Theory , Vol . 4 ed . ) . Maisonneuve Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 944624 @-@ 17 @-@ 3 . Re @-@ released as Churchill , Ward ( 2004 ) . Jim Vander Wall , ed . Politics of Imprisonment in the United States . AK Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 904859 @-@ 12 @-@ 3 . 

 Struggle for the Land : Indigenous Resistance to Genocide , Ecocide and Expropriation in Contemporary North America . Common Courage Press . 1993 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 56751 @-@ 001 @-@ 0 . Revised and expanded edition : Struggle for the Land : Native North American Resistance to Genocide , Ecocide and Colonization . San Francisco CA : City Lights Books . 2002 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 87286 @-@ 415 @-@ 3 . 

 Indians Are Us ? : Culture and Genocide in Native North America . Common Courage Press . 1994 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 56751 @-@ 021 @-@ 8 . 

 Since Predator Came : Notes from the Struggle for American Indian Liberation . Aigis Press . 1995 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 883930 @-@ 03 @-@ 5 . 

 Churchill , Ward ( 1996 ) . From a Native Son : Selected Essays on Indigenism 1985 – 1995 . Boulder CO : South End Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 89608 @-@ 553 @-@ 4 . 

 Pacifism as Pathology : Reflections on the Role of Armed Struggle in North America. with Mike Ryan ( introduction by Ed Mead ) . Arbeiter Ring . 1998 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 894037 @-@ 07 @-@ 5 . 

 A Little Matter of Genocide . San Francisco CA : City Lights Books . 1998 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 87286 @-@ 343 @-@ 9 . 

 Draconian Measures : The History of FBI Political Repression . Common Courage Press . 2000 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 56751 @-@ 059 @-@ 1 . 

 Acts Of Rebellion : The Ward Churchill Reader . Routledge . 2002 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 415 @-@ 93156 @-@ 4 . 

 Perversions of Justice : Indigenous Peoples and Angloamerican Law . San Francisco CA : City Lights Books . 2002 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 87286 @-@ 416 @-@ 0 . 

 On the Justice of Roosting Chickens : Reflections on the Consequences of U.S. Imperial Arrogance and Criminality . AK Press . 2003 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 902593 @-@ 79 @-@ 1 . 

 Kill the Indian , Save the Man : The Genocidal Impact of American Indian Residential Schools . San Francisco CA : City Lights Books . 2004 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 87286 @-@ 434 @-@ 4 . 

 Speaking Truth in the Teeth of Power : Lectures on Globalization , Colonialism , and Native North America . AK Press . 2004 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 904859 @-@ 04 @-@ 8 . 

 To Disrupt , Discredit And Destroy : The FBI 's Secret War Against The Black Panther Party . Routledge . 2005 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 415 @-@ 92957 @-@ 8 . 

 Articles 

 Churchill , Ward ( July – September 1992 ) . " I Am Indigenist : Notes on the Ideology of the Fourth World " . Z Papers 1 ( 3 ) . Archived from the original on October 14 , 2007 . 

 Churchill , Ward ( 1994 ) . " Let 's Spread the Fun Around " . First published as " Crimes Against Humanity " in Margaret Anderson and Patricia Hill ( eds . ) ( 1994 ) . Race , Class and Gender : An Anthology . Belmont , CA : Wadsworth. pp. 366 – 73 . Also published under the titles " The Indian Chant and the Tomahawk Chop " and " Using Indian Names as Mascots Harms Native Americans " . 

 Churchill , Ward ( November 1998 ) . " Smoke Signals : A History of Native Americans in Cinema " . LiP Magazine . 

 Churchill , Ward ( Winter – Spring 2003 ) . " An American Holocaust ? The Structure of Denial " . Socialism and Democracy 17 ( 2 ) : 25 – 76 @.@  doi : 10 @.@ 1080 / 08854300308428341 . 

 Churchill , Ward ( Spring 2005 ) . " The Ghosts of 9 @-@ 1 @-@ 1 : Reflections on History , Justice and Roosting Chickens " . Alternative Press Review 9 ( 1 ) : 45 – 56 . Archived from the original on October 2 , 2006 . 

 Churchill , Ward ( July – August 2007 ) . " The Fourth World : Struggles for Traditional Lands and Ways of Life " . Left Turn 25 : 25 – 29 . 

 Audio and video 

 Doing Time : The Politics of Imprisonment , audio CD of a lecture , recorded at the Doing Time Conference at the University of Winnipeg , September 2000 ( AK Press , 2001 , ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 902593 @-@ 47 @-@ 0 ) 

 Life In Occupied America ( AK Press , 2003 , ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 902593 @-@ 72 @-@ 2 ) 

 In A Pig 's Eye : Reflections on the Police State , Repression , and Native America ( AK Press , 2002 , ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 902593 @-@ 50 @-@ 0 ) 

 US Off The Planet ! : An Evening In Eugene With Ward Churchill And Chellis Glendinning , VHS video recorded July 17 , 2001 ( Cascadia Media Collective , 2002 ) 

 Pacifism and Pathology in the American Left , 2003 audio CD recorded at an AK Press warehouse in Oakland ( AK Press Audio ) 

 Z Mag Ward Churchill Audio August 10 , 2003 and earlier 

 Churchill Speaks About Academic Freedom – Free Speech Radio News February 9 , 2005 

 Ward Churchill Under Fire – Free Speech Radio News , February 3 , 2005 . 

 The Justice of Roosting Chickens : Ward Churchill Speaks The Pacifica Network Show , Democracy Now ! from February 18 , 2005 features extended Audio / Video exclusive interview with Churchill . 

 A Little Matter of Genocide : Linking U.S. Aggression Abroad to the Domestic Repression of Indigenous Peoples " , recorded in North Battleford , Saskatchewan on March 19 , 2005 

 Debate with David Horowitz and Ward Churchill at George Washington University April 6 , 2006 

 " Full two @-@ hour audio of debate with David Horowitz " . rightalk.listenz.com. Retrieved 2006 @-@ 07 @-@ 02 . 

 " David Horowitz vs. Ward Churchill — Round 1 " . Young Americans Foundation . Retrieved 2006 @-@ 07 @-@ 02 . Video and audio ( excerpt ) 

 " David Horowitz vs. Ward Churchill " . insidehighered.com. Retrieved 2006 @-@ 07 @-@ 02 . 


 = = Artwork = = 


 Churchill 's subjects are often American Indian figures and other themes associated with Native American Culture . He uses historical photographs as source material for works . In the early 1990s at Santa Fe Indian Market , Churchill protested the passage of the 1990 Indian Arts and Crafts Act . It requires that , to identify and exhibit works as being by a Native American , artists and craftsmen must be enrolled in a Native American tribe or designated by a tribe as an artisan . Under federal law , Churchill cannot identify his art as by a Native American . 

 Some of Churchill 's pieces may infringe copyrights . For example , his 1981 serigraph Winter Attack was , according to Churchill and others , based on a 1972 drawing by the artist Thomas E. Mails Churchill printed 150 copies of Winter Attack and sold at least one of them . Other copies are available online for purchase . Churchill says that , when he produced Winter Attack , he publicly acknowledged that it was based on Mails ' work . The online journal Artnet mentions Churchill 's artwork and the controversy surrounding its originality . 



 = Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart = 


 " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " is the fifteenth episode of the twenty @-@ third season of the American animated television sitcom The Simpsons . It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 4 , 2012 . In the episode , Bart is punished by Homer after causing trouble . He gets revenge on his father by spray @-@ painting images of him with the word " dope " all over Springfield . Street artist Shepard Fairey encounters Bart one night and offers him a gallery show of Bart 's artworks . However , Chief Wiggum suddenly appears during the show and arrests Bart for covering the town in graffiti . It turns out that Fairey is an undercover officer working for Wiggum . 

 The episode references the 2010 street art documentary Exit Through the Gift Shop by graffiti artist Banksy , and features guest appearances from street artists Ron English , Kenny Scharf , and Robbie Conal as themselves . Fairey , who is a long @-@ time fan of The Simpsons , also guest starred in the episode as himself . Around 5 @.@ 09 million Americans tuned in to watch " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " during its original broadcast . Since then , the episode has received praise from television critics for its opening sequence , which parodies the opening sequence of the medieval fantasy television series Game of Thrones . 


 = = Plot = = 


 As a birthday gift for Marge , Homer buys a blender designed by television chef Paula Paul . He goes to a health food store called Swapper Jack 's , where Paula is giving away autographs , to have Paula sign it . Homer is impressed by the store and says he will not be shopping at the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart any more . Apu , who is there to spy , overhears Homer and the two engage in a fight until the security guards grab hold of Apu and take him away . At the signing , Homer tells Paula that Marge is a big fan of hers . Paula decides that she will call Marge live during her upcoming show to wish her a happy birthday . Meanwhile , Bart gets his mother a rabbit for her birthday . The rabbit chews through the phone lines in the Simpsons ' home , causing Marge to miss Paula 's call . Paula becomes furious at Marge for not answering the phone as she embarrassed herself on her show . Homer punishes Bart by locking him up in the rabbit 's cage . 

 To get revenge on Homer , Bart goes around Springfield spray @-@ painting graffiti of Homer 's face and the word " dope " . When his work appears on the television news , it encourages Bart to create even more graffiti in the town . Street artists Shepard Fairey , Ron English , Kenny Scharf , and Robbie Conal encounter Bart one night when he is making some graffiti . The four tell Bart that they are impressed by his work and would like to showcase his art in a gallery show , at first Bart is unsure , but Bart remembers how Homer treated him , and then agrees . Meanwhile , the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart suffers because of the competition from Swapper Jack 's . Apu ends up attempting to rob Swapper Jack 's in a desperate measure , but the cashier ( Snake Jailbird ) convinces him to hand over the gun . Later , Apu is about to shut down the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart when his wife Manjula tells him that Swapper Jack 's is closing because it was discovered they were selling monkey meat imported from Brazil as chicken . 

 Homer initially refuses to attend Bart 's show because he discovers the artwork is an insult to him , but changes his mind after Bart apologizes and writes " I 'm sorry " on the hood of Homer 's car . At the show , Chief Wiggum and the Springfield Police Department suddenly appear to arrest Bart for making graffiti throughout the town . It is revealed that the gallery show is a sham and that Fairey is an undercover officer who helped the police identify Bart as the graffiti artist that had been spray @-@ painting Springfield . Since Bart is just a boy , he is not sent to jail . Instead , he is punished by once again being locked up in the rabbit cage . When Bart tells Wiggum that he has to go to the bathroom , Wiggum covers the cage with the blanket and finds Bart gone when he removes the blanket from the cage . 


 = = Production = = 


 " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " was written by Marc Wilmore and directed by Steven Dean Moore as part of the twenty @-@ third season of The Simpsons ( 2011 – 12 ) . It spoofs the debated status of street art as a true form of art . The title is a reference to Exit Through the Gift Shop , a 2010 street art documentary by graffiti artist Banksy who produced the opening sequence of an earlier Simpsons episode titled " MoneyBART " ( 2010 ) . The Richard Hawley song " Tonight The Streets Are Ours " , which is the theme song of Exit Through the Gift Shop , is included in the episode during a montage of Bart painting graffiti in Springfield . Hayden Childs of The A.V. Club noted in his review of " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " that the " reveal that the art show was a police sting gives the show a moment to joke about the anti @-@ art market theme from Exit Through The Gift Shop . Wiggum asks who would be stupid enough to pay for work that an amateur puts up for free in public , and the answer is , as in Banksy ’ s movie , the very wealthy , here represented by Mr. Burns . " 

 American street artist Fairey guest starred in " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " as himself . The graffiti art featuring Homer 's face and the word " dope " that Bart creates in the episode is a reference to Fairey 's Barack Obama " Hope " poster and his OBEY Giant image . Fairey has said that The Simpsons has been one of his favorite television shows since the early 1990s because of its " blend of humor and social commentary " , and he felt " deeply honored " to be included in an episode . Fairey wrote on his website that " Part of being on The Simpsons , is you ’ re being honored as a reference point in culture . " He described the plot of the episode as " great " , adding that the staff members of the show " were kind enough to indulge a couple of my dialogue suggestions designed to make the social commentary more pointed ( even though I had to make fun of myself to do so ) . " This was Fairey 's first acting performance . Street artists English , Scharf , and Conal also guest starred in the episode as themselves . 

 The traditional Simpsons opening sequence was replaced in this episode with a redesigned version that spoofed the opening sequence of the HBO medieval fantasy series Game of Thrones . The Game of Thrones opening shows the various locations featured in the series on a three @-@ dimensional map of the fictional continent Westeros . In the Simpsons opening , these locations were substituted with places in Springfield , and The Wall was replaced with the Simpson family 's couch . The theme song featured in the Game of Thrones opening sequence was arranged by The Simpsons composer Alf Clausen and used in the Simpsons opening as well . Nicholas McKaig , known for uploading a cappella covers of famous songs on YouTube , performed the Simpsons theme song over the closing credits of " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " . He was recruited after a staff member of the show saw his cover of the Simpsons theme on YouTube . 


 = = Release = = 


 " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " was originally broadcast on the Fox network in the United States on March 4 , 2012 . It was watched by approximately 5 @.@ 09 million people during this broadcast , and in the demographic for adults aged 18 – 49 , the episode received a 2 @.@ 5 Nielsen rating and a seven percent share . This was a slight decrease from the previous episode , " At Long Last Leave " , which acquired a 2 @.@ 6 rating . The episode became the second highest @-@ rated broadcast in Fox 's Animation Domination lineup for the night in terms of both total viewers and in the 18 – 49 demographic , finishing higher than new episodes of American Dad ! , Napoleon Dynamite , and The Cleveland Show , but lower than a new Family Guy episode ( which received a 2 @.@ 8 rating and was seen by 5 @.@ 33 million people ) . For the week of February 27 – March 4 , 2012 , " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " placed 25th in the ratings among all prime @-@ time broadcasts in the 18 – 49 demographic , and seventh among all Fox prime @-@ time broadcasts . 

 Writing for The A.V. Club , television reviewer Hayden Childs commented that " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " was " somewhat amusing and far more coherent than many recent episodes , but the satire is relatively mild . The episode curdles a bit while looking for a sweet ending , but it is otherwise solid enough . " Critics have praised the opening sequence that parodies Game of Thrones . Tim Surette of TV.com called it " one minute of genius " , and MTV 's Brandon Freeberg wrote : " Congratulations are in order for Matt Groening and his staff for really knocking this one out of the park . " Jenna Busch of Zap2it and Kelly West of Cinema Blend , both fans of Game of Thrones , named the opening the best in the history of the show . IGN 's Eric Goldman commented : " Ah , The Simpsons . Always there for us with clever / loving parody of something we all love . Such was the case last night , when the animated series opened with an epic opening credit sequence that gave us the Springfield @-@ inspired version of the terrific Game of Thrones credits . " 



 = The Boat Race 2008 = 


 The 154th Boat Race took place on 29 March 2008 . Held annually , the event is a side @-@ by @-@ side rowing race between crews from the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge along the River Thames . Oxford won the race . Oxford 's crew featured the oldest competitor in Boat Race history . The race took place in very difficult weather conditions – strong winds and heavy rain – resulting in the slowest winning time in over sixty years . Oxford won by six lengths , the largest margin of victory since the 2004 race . 

 Oxford 's Isis beat Cambridge 's Goldie in the reserve race , while Oxford won the Women 's Boat Race . 


 = = Background = = 


 The Boat Race is a side @-@ by @-@ side rowing competition between the University of Oxford ( sometimes referred to as the " Dark Blues " ) and the University of Cambridge ( sometimes referred to as the " Light Blues " ) . First held in 1829 , the race takes place on the 4 @.@ 2 @-@ mile ( 6 @.@ 8 km ) Championship Course on the River Thames in southwest London . The rivalry is a major point of honour between the two universities and followed throughout the United Kingdom and broadcast worldwide . Cambridge went into the race as reigning champions , having beaten Oxford by over a length in the previous year 's race and the overall lead , with 79 victories to Oxford 's 73 . The race was sponsored by Xchanging for the fourth time . 

 The first Women 's Boat Race took place in 1927 , but did not become an annual fixture until the 1960s . Until 2014 , the contest was conducted as part of the Henley Boat Races , but as of the 2015 race , it is held on the River Thames , on the same day as the men 's main and reserve races . The reserve race , contested between Oxford 's Isis boat and Cambridge 's Goldie boat has been held since 1965 . It usually takes place on the Tideway , prior to the main Boat Race . 


 = = Crews = = 


 Oxford 's crew weighed an average of 12 pounds ( 5 @.@ 4 kg ) more per rower than their opponents , and featured the oldest competitor in Boat Race history in 36 @-@ year @-@ old American Mike Wherley . Cambridge crew consisted of six Britons , two Australians and an American , while Oxford 's comprised four Americans , three Britons , an Australian and a German . Both coxes , Nick Brodie and Rebecca Dowbiggin , were former Blues , while Cambridge also saw 30 @-@ year @-@ old Tom Edwards return , having rowed in 2006 . Cambridge 's boat club president Dan O 'Shaughnessy was the seventh Light Blue president not to row in his own Blue Boat . 


 = = Race = = 


 Oxford were pre @-@ race favourites , but Cambridge won the toss and elected to start from the Surrey station . Oxford took an early lead , but the boats closed on each other , and Umpire John Garrett was forced to issue a number of warnings to both coxes in an attempt to prevent a collision . By Craven Cottage , Oxford were nearly a length ahead and Cambridge responded ; by the time the crews passed under Hammersmith Bridge they were level . Along Chiswick Eyot Oxford moved ahead once again , and were clear of Cambridge after 30 strokes . Oxford extended their lead to pass the finishing post in 20 minutes 53 seconds , six lengths and 22 seconds ahead of their opponents . Driving rain , strong winds and choppy water resulted in the slowest winning time for over sixty years , but the largest margin of victory since the 2004 race . 

 Oxford 's Isis beat Cambridge 's Goldie by three @-@ and @-@ a @-@ quarter lengths in the reserve race . Oxford won the 44th running of the Women 's Boat Race by half a length . 


 = = Reaction = = 


 Oxford 's Oliver Moore said " we got the rage going in the crew , and we started to kill it , we hit an awesome rhythm " . Cambridge coach Duncan Holland congratulated his opponents : " Well done to Oxford , they were much faster on the day " . Following tradition , the victorious Oxford crew tossed their cox Brodie into the Thames . 



 = Fort Scott National Historic Site = 


 Fort Scott National Historic Site is a historical area under the control of the United States National Park Service in Bourbon County , Kansas , United States . Named after General Winfield Scott , who achieved renown during the Mexican @-@ American War , during the middle of the 19th century the fort served as a military base for US Army action in what was the edge of settlement in 1850 . For the next quarter century , it was used as a supply base and to provide security in turbulent areas during the opening of the West to settlement , a period which included Bleeding Kansas and the American Civil War . 

 The current national historic site protects 20 historic structures , a parade ground , and five acres ( 20 @,@ 000 m ² ) of restored tallgrass prairie , inside the city of Fort Scott . It is open to visitors most days of the year . 


 = = History = = 


 In 1842 , Fort Scott was named after Winfield Scott , was established on the American frontier on the military road in eastern Kansas between Fort Leavenworth and Fort Gibson . It was established to provide protection to the rapidly increasing number of settlers , who were migrating from the Eastern United States . Fort Scott became one of a chain of forts intended to protect the new settlers from the Plains Indians , as well as to protect the Indians from the settlers ' encroachment . 

 The United States government intention to reserve permanent Indian lands west of the Missouri River gave way to the competition of settlers continuing to encroach on the Indian settlements . Fort Scott 's most active days were between 1842 and 1853 , although it was also used during the Civil War . 


 = = = Army days = = = 


 The Cherokee of Indian Territory ( now Oklahoma ) were upset to have Fort Wayne in their proximity . After some delay , the US Army decided to abandon Fort Wayne and move its soldiers to a new fort to be built between Fort Leavenworth and the site . The Army both wanted to placate the Cherokee ( who were supervised by the Department of Defense ) and provide more defense for white settlers and other Indians against the Osage , who had been conducting frequent raids in the area . On April 1 , 1842 , some soldiers of Fort Wayne left their fort and on April 22 arrived where Fort Scott would be built , in the Osage Cuestas section of modern @-@ day Kansas . After haggling with the Cherokees to acquire the land , the rest of Fort Wayne 's garrison left the fort on May 26 and arrived at the Fort Scott site on May 30 . 

 Unlike most forts for military use , the fort did not have defensive walls or structures when first built ; the wide @-@ open area and the available artillery made an enclosed fort unnecessary . The soldiers concentrated on building structures for lodging the men , animals , and equipment . These buildings were on the edges of a 350 @-@ foot ( 110 m ) parade ground . 

 The post quartermaster , Captain Thomas Swords , was in charge of building Fort Scott 's structures , and had to deal with the problems of construction on the Kansas prairie , which had few trees . He had only two bricklayers and three carpenters to rely on , as there were few civilians and most of the soldiers had other duties to perform . Wood was available , but the mill was built 1 @.@ 5 miles ( 2 @.@ 4 km ) away , making transport time consuming . Swords found his efforts plagued by lack of wood , skilled labor and working equipment . Freak accidents destroyed much of the wood intended for the fort 's construction . As a result , only one duplex of the five planned officers quarters ( four duplexes and post commandant 's house ) was built by 1844 , and the intended enlisted barracks were not completed . In his 1844 inspection of the fort , Colonel George Croghan reported that , in comparison to other frontier forts , he considered Fort Scott " above average " . 

 Due to the rising tensions that escalated in the Mexican @-@ American War , the US Army redeployed troops to the Southwest . With Fort Scott still uncompleted , officials decided on April 25 , 1850 , that no more construction would be done there , after eight years and $ 35 @,@ 000 . By the time it was finished , it was obsolete ; three years later , it was abandoned by the military in favor of the more western Fort Riley . 

 For the average soldier , life at the fort was " monotonous " . Until the permanent structures were built , soldiers had to live in tents , which lacked comfort . Aside from a few whiskey peddlers and prostitutes , few civilians lived at the fort . Officers had brought their personal slaves with them , including Captain Swords . Five miles East in Missouri was a grog shop that supplied soldiers , and quite a few courts @-@ martial followed soldiers ' going AWOL at the shop . The desertion rate from the fort ranged from 12 % -16 % , due to boredom , irregular pay , and hatred for military life . As no combat took place near the fort , it seemed more of a frontier village than a military base . Hunting was a popular pastime ; according to Captain Swords , " wolf chasing and duck hunting " was the only way one officer could tolerate the place . 


 = = = Bleeding Kansas = = = 


 Two years after the army abandoned the fort , the buildings were sold by auction to civilians , with two being converted to hotels . In 1854 the Kansas @-@ Nebraska Act repealed the Missouri Compromise of 1820 , which had kept slavery out of Kansas . Missourians in favor of slavery soon moved to Kansas to try to sway the vote of whether or not Kansas would permit slavery . Settlers from New England arrived equally determined to keep it out . Each of the two competing factions of the Bleeding Kansas conflict claimed one of the hotels at Fort Scott : Free @-@ Soil at the Fort Scott Hotel and Pro @-@ Slavery at the Western Hotel . Most of the residents in Fort Scott supported slavery , but those outside the town tended to the free @-@ soil side . During this time , there were local incidents of murder and attempted arson , typical elements of the guerrilla conflicts that were prevalent in the fighting . 


 = = = Army returns = = = 

